Regultion 3 academic_progress_and_granting_of_awards.txt



1. INTRODUCTION
The University aims at providing high quality education, and the purpose of this policy is to establish the standards for academic progression and granting of awards to students. The University is also committed to the well-being of its students and has put systems and measures in place to monitor their progress, and to identify and assist those students who are making unsatisfactory progress.

Subject to the final authority of the Academic Board, College/Faculty Boards of Examiners will determine the academic progress of students on the basis of their performance in examinations and coursework assessments. A student must maintain a satisfactory academic standing to progress from year to year and/or level to level in a given course of study. Students who fail to make satisfactory progress will be placed on Academic Probation (See Section 2.1 and 9.0).

The regulations governing students’ academic progress and status, as outlined below, will apply to all new students’ intake effective Academic Year 2024/25. All other students will not be affected by the revisions in the current publication of Regulation 3, unless otherwise stated.

The grading scheme will apply to ALL students as of the effective date.  
This regulation supersedes all previous regulations.

2. STUDENT STATUS  
Terminology | Definitions

Currently Registered – CRO  
Registered in the current Academic Year.  

Progressed – N  
Advanced to the next level.  

Leave of Absence – ABS  
Not attending classes with approval for reasons given in Leave of Absence application (See Section 3.14).  

Academic Probation – AP  
A current undergraduate student who has a cumulative GPA of below 2.0 at the end of an academic year. See Section 9.0 for information on academic probation for graduate students.  

Withdrawn – WWIP  
Authorized withdrawal (after written approval has been granted) from a course of study after commencement of classes, for a period of time following a student’s written request to do so (See Section 3.27).  

Withdrawn – WWOP  
Withdrawal from a course of study, where no written approval has been granted to a written request, for a period of time without notifying the university or having official authorization to do so (See Section 3.27).  

Discontinued – DI  
An undergraduate student’s status will move to “Discontinued” if he/she is on Academic Probation for two (2) cumulative years of enrolment. See Section 9.0 for information on academic probation for graduate students.  
Students with “Discontinued Status” may apply for admission to another course of study at the next application period.  

Expired – EP  
Studentship has ended as a result of failure to meet the requirements for an academic award within the maximum permissible time for completion of a Course of Study.  
Students with “Expired Status” at the end of the academic year may reapply for re-admission. The award conferred after successful completion of the Course of Study is subject to the Transfer and Exemption Policy.


2.1 ACADEMIC PROBATION
Academic Probation is a measure taken by the University to indicate that a student is not maintaining satisfactory performance. Such student will be advised by the College/Faculty and warned that he/she is on academic probation, and must improve his/her academic standing or be subjected to discontinuation (dismissal).

2.11 CONDITIONS FOR ACADEMIC PROBATION
A student will be placed on academic probation if his/her cumulative GPA is less than 2.0. Students on academic probation must remain in the level last registered until a GPA of 2.0 or above is achieved. The maximum number of credits, including the failed modules, which can be attempted in any semester or summer session, is 12 and 9, respectively. The period of Academic Probation does not extend the prescribed duration and the maximum completion time for the course of study. (See section 9.0 for information on academic probation for graduate students.) Students on Academic Probation are required to meet regularly with their assigned Academic Advisors to:
• Discuss reasons for unsatisfactory academic performance;
• Review academic standing;
• Develop strategies, including additional support, to achieve satisfactory academic standing within the probationary terms, and monitor progress towards that goal.

A student who entered the university before AY2016/17 and obtained a cumulative GPA below 1.7 would be placed on Academic Probation. A student who entered the university AY2017/18 and obtained a cumulative GPA of 2.0 will be placed on Academic Probation.

3. ACADEMIC TERMINOLOGY, POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

3.1 ACADEMIC YEAR
The University operates a 12-month academic year. The year is divided into two semesters and a summer session as follows:
Semester 1: August – December
Semester 2: January – May
Summer Session: May – August
Classes are scheduled between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. from Sunday to Saturday.

3.2 ADD/DROP
Students wishing to add or drop modules must complete the Add/Drop form online and submit by the end of the first ten working days in Semesters 1 and 2 and the first five (5) working days of the Summer Session (See Add/Drop Policy).

3.3 ASSOCIATE DEGREE
An Associate Degree is an award conferred upon successful completion of a Course of Study or training at the post-secondary level, which requires the passing of a minimum of 60 credit hours of instruction and/or other academic requirements.

3.4 BACHELOR’S DEGREE
A Bachelor’s Degree is an award conferred upon successful completion of a Course of Study or training at the post-secondary level, which requires the passing of a minimum of 120 credit hours of instruction and/or other academic requirements.

3.5 DIPLOMA
A Diploma is an award conferred upon successful completion of a Course of Study or training at the post-secondary level, which requires the passing of a minimum of 90 credit hours of instruction and/or other academic requirements.

3.6 CERTIFICATE
A Certificate is an award conferred upon successful completion of a Course of Study or training at the post-secondary level, which requires the passing of a minimum of 30 credit hours of instruction and/or other academic requirements.

3.7 CORE MODULES
Core modules are modules that define a particular course of study. Core modules are compulsory.

3.8 CREDIT HOURS
i. One theory credit is given for every 15 contact hours of lecture, tutorial or seminar instruction, or the online learning equivalent of time-on-task during a semester.
ii. One practical credit is given for every 45 hours of laboratory/practical instruction in a laboratory or workshop module.
iii. Design Studio Credit: One credit hour is given for every 16–20 hours of Design Studio during a semester within the first two years of the Course of Study (see School’s prospectus). During Years 3 and 4 one credit hour is given for every 12 hours of Design Studio. In the Design Studio, theory and practice are combined.
iv. One Cooperative Education Credit is given for every 80–200 (two to five weeks of work assignments) hours of cooperative education work in an approved work location.

Modules with other instructional delivery modes may require other class/student contact hours for credit assignment. These are awarded pass/fail grades. Fees for redoing such modules will be determined on a per credit basis.

3.9 CREDIT MODULE
A credit module is an approved University module for which credit towards a University degree, diploma or certificate may be earned. Credit is granted when a student achieves a passing grade within the University’s grading scheme for a module approved as a credit module. Pre-university modules are assigned zero credit and do not contribute to the determination of the class of an award.

3.10 ELECTIVE
An elective is a module that the student chooses to take outside of those prescribed by the Course of Study. Electives may be at the university, school or course of study levels.

3.11 MODE OF ATTENDANCE
A student’s mode of attendance is determined at the beginning of each semester, based on the number of credits. A full-time student is one taking a number of credits that would enable the completion of a course of study in the prescribed timeframe. This would normally be 12–18 credits per semester.

A part-time student is one taking less than 12 credits per semester.

However, where the credit load requirement for the course of study has not been met in the semesters, students may complete their credit requirements during the summer session, where the relevant modules are being offered.

Students may also take additional credits, subject to academic advisement and/or special course requirements.

While there is flexibility, a student is required to conform to the terms and conditions of the sponsor, for example, Students’ Loan Bureau. This may differ for graduate students.

3.12 GRADE REVIEW
A grade review is a reassessment of any part of the examination process based on established rules and procedures. (See Change of Grade Policy.)

3.13 GRADE FORGIVENESS
Grade Forgiveness (GF) is the opportunity for an undergraduate student to redo a module in which a grade of “C-” or lower was received, and to earn a grade that will be substituted for the previous grade. (See the Grade Forgiveness Policy.)

3.14 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Leave of Absence is the suspension of studies with the approval of the University, for a minimum of one semester and up to a maximum of one academic year per course of study. Leave of Absence does not count against a student’s maximum completion timeframe for the particular course of study or class of award. Students whose course of study is structured on Semesters 1 and 2 do not need to apply for Leave of Absence during the summer session.

Leave of Absence may be granted for the following reasons, which may include but are not limited to:
• Medical (injury/illness, pregnancy, childbirth, traumatic experiences and natural disasters)
• Academic (internship locally or overseas, student exchange with other institutions)
• Other (participation in approved competitions, financial problems, international students with passport/visa issues)

In all instances supporting documentation will be required.

The request for Leave of Absence is made by submitting the College/Faculty Student Academic Affairs Committee (C/FSAAC) request form to the College/Faculty by the end of the third week of the semester. The C/FSAAC form is available in the College/Faculty Student Affairs Office. Leave of Absence is not granted retroactively.

A student on Leave of Absence is required to pay a studentship fee in order to maintain his/her studentship. The Office of Business and Finance will determine the amount. Students are not permitted to pursue any studies at the University while on Leave of Absence.

3.15 LEVEL
Modules in undergraduate courses are indicated as being at Levels 1–4, based on the difficulty/complexity of the modules and/or where they are sequenced in the course of study. Each student must complete the required number of credits at every Level in order to graduate.
The levels are:
• Level 1 – Successful completion of up to 26 credits, including Transfer/Exemption credits.
• Level 2 – Successful completion of 27 to 58 credits, including Transfer/Exemption credits.
• Level 3 – Successful completion of 59 to 91 credits, including Transfer/Exemption credits.
• Level 4 – Successful completion of 92 credits and above, including Transfer/Exemption credits.

3.16 OPTION/SPECIALISATION/ROUTE
A group of modules related to a major area of specialised study within a course of study, frequently developing from a common base, e.g., the Accounting and Marketing Options of the Bachelor of Business Administration course of study. The specialisation areas comprise major, major/minor and double-major options. Some graduate courses also have specializations.

3.17 PROGRESS REPORT
A statement detailing a student’s academic performance for an academic session, issued by the Registrar upon request.

3.18 RE-ADMISSION
This is admission by the University of a student who is resuming his/her course of study. The following categories of students may apply for re-admission:
a. Withdrawn without permission
b. Expired.
Students resuming are required to comply with the University’s re-admissions or re-application procedure. (See the Re-Admission Policy)

3.19 REDO
To redo a module means to register (having paid) for the module, attend classes face-to-face, participate online or through independent study, complete all coursework requirements, and sit the end-of-module final examination, if applicable.

3.20 REINSTATEMENT
This is the restoration by the Academic Board of a student to his/her former status in the University. Reinstatement applies to students who were on approved Leave of Absence, Withdrawn with Permission, and such other categories as may be determined by the Academic Board.
For students who have been suspended, reinstatement will be subject to the terms and conditions of their suspension.
Students are required to request reinstatement in writing to the Registrar.

3.21 SEMESTER/SUMMER SESSION
A semester is one of the two main academic sessions in the academic year. It is normally 16 weeks in duration and includes teaching, study period and the examination session.
A summer session runs within the period from the end of Semester 2 to the beginning of the next academic year. It is normally 10 weeks in duration, which includes teaching and the examination session.

3.22 SPECIALLY ADMITTED STUDENTS
Specially admitted students fall into one of the following categories:
• Persons admitted to the University to “audit" a module(s) but who are not candidates for a degree, diploma, certificate or other academic certification of the University;
• Persons wishing to bank credits towards an unspecified degree;
• Persons admitted by special arrangements with other tertiary institutions.

3.23 TRANSFER
A transfer takes place when there is a change from one campus or Course of Study to another. Application should be submitted to the applicant’s Programme Director six (6) weeks before the beginning of the academic session using the Request for Transfer form.

3.24 TRANSFER CREDIT
A transfer credit is earned for a module successfully pursued at an approved tertiary institution and deemed equivalent to one in a UTech, Ja. course of study. Applicant should complete the Application for Transfer Credit form, and enter the details of the modules for which he/she wishes to be evaluated. (See the Transfer Credit and Exemption Policy for further details)

3.25 TRANSCRIPT/ACADEMIC RECORD
A transcript is a student’s academic record that will be sent, upon request, to an approved third party (educational institutions, banks, companies, etc.) at a cost. A student's copy of his/her academic record (called a Statement of Academic Record) is available for a fee.

3.26 WITHDRAWAL FROM A MODULE
Withdrawal from a module is intended to assist students who are insufficiently prepared to complete and be examined in the module.
A student wishing to withdraw from a module shall discuss the matter with his/her Academic Advisor [Programme Director in the case of graduate students], complete the withdrawal form, and submit the completed form to the Programme Director (copied to the Head of School/Department) for approval no less than two weeks before the official suspension of classes for the Semester or the Summer Session. The student will be informed of the decision by the Programme Director (copied to Records Office). Where withdrawal is granted, a “WM” will be placed on the student’s record, but it will not affect the calculation of the GPA.

No withdrawal is permissible within the last two weeks before the official suspension of classes, and any non-attendance thereon will be subjected to the Examinations Policy. “Drop-out” of class is not withdrawal, and such action may result in a “Fail” grade for the module.

The approval of the request for withdrawal cannot be revoked, and there will be no right to appeal. Students are limited to a maximum of two module withdrawals in any semester or summer session. Students are advised to redo the module(s) at the next available offering.

There is no refund of module fee when a student withdraws from a module.

3.27 WITHDRAWAL FROM COURSE OF STUDY

3.27.1 WITHDRAWAL WITH PERMISSION
After the first three weeks of commencement of classes, students may request authorised withdrawal from the course of study for a period of time not exceeding one semester/summer session. The request is made by submitting the C/FSAAC request form to the College/Faculty at least two weeks before the official suspension of classes for the semester/summer session. Resumption notice should be given three weeks prior to the date on which the student is expected to resume, using the Readmission form.

Any request for withdrawal will be counted in the maximum completion timeframe for the course of study.
Any incomplete modules attempted will be annotated with a “WC”. The attempt will be noted in the student’s record, but will not affect the calculation of the GPA. Students will be required to redo the incomplete modules after resumption.

Withdrawal from a course of study is not permitted in the last two weeks before the official suspension of classes. Students are prohibited from pursuing any study at the University while on Withdrawal.

Refer to the Fee Refund Policy as it relates to outstanding fee or fee refund.

3.27.2 WITHDRAWAL WITHOUT PERMISSION
A student is considered to have withdrawn without permission if he/she fails to:
a. complete or participate in course requirements and has not sought approval and received approval of the University of his/her intention to do so.
b. continue in the course of study when approval to withdraw was not given.
c. return after the period of Leave of Absence or Withdrawal with Permission has ended.

In these circumstances, students who are desirous of completing the course of study should reapply to the University.

Refer to the Fee Refund Policy as it relates to outstanding fee or fee refund.

4. ACADEMIC PROGRESS AND GRANTING OF AWARDS FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS

4.1 The University confers awards on students who have successfully completed approved courses of study and who have satisfied the conditions specified in Ordinance 7.

4.2 To receive a university award, a student must successfully complete the requirements of his/her course of study as well as fulfil other obligations to the University. To be eligible for graduation, a student must be in good academic standing and have satisfied all other obligations to the University.

Generally, a student will be eligible to receive a degree, diploma, associate degree, certificate or other award when:
a) He/she has successfully completed (passed) all modules and assigned credit hours in a prescribed course of study.
b) He/she has been recommended by both the College/Faculty Board of Examiners and the Registrar.
c) He/she has met the requirements specified in Ordinance 7.
d) The recommendation has been approved by the Academic Board.


4.3 The University also offers a variety of professional courses, and the requirements of professional bodies and of the University must be satisfied before an award may be granted.

4.4 (a) Course of Study  
This is a plan of study lasting over a specified period of time which leads to the award of a Degree, Diploma, Certificate or other academic certification of the University.

(b) Prescribed (Normal) Timeframe  
This is the stated duration of a course of study.  
Note: Where the loading is below the average required per semester, students need to take additional modules in subsequent academic session(s) to make up.

(c) Maximum Timeframe  
The rationale for placing a timeframe on completing a course of study is to ensure that the award reflects currency of knowledge and skill. The maximum timeframe to complete a course of study for the following awards is:
• Bachelor’s Degree – prescribed timeframe plus 3 years  
• Diploma – 5 years  
• Associate Degree – 4 years  
• Certificate – 3 years  
The maximum timeframe does not include approved Leave of Absence or extenuating circumstances, such as illness.

(d) Discretionary Extension of Studentship for Completion of Award  
Students who have exceeded the prescribed and maximum permissible timeframe and who require an extension to satisfy the completion of their awards may apply to the respective College or Faculty Board for an extension of no more than two years. The College/Faculty will act under the delegated authority of the Academic Board and will report its decision for noting to the next scheduled meeting of the Academic Board. [This provision is also applicable to graduate students]

(e) Appeals - Discretionary Extension of Studentship for Completion of Award  
Students who have been denied the discretionary extension (maximum 2 years) by their respective College/Faculty Board may appeal the decision to the Academic Board Student Academic Affairs’ Review Panel (ABSAARP).  
Having reviewed the decision of the College/Faculty Board, the ABSAARP may confirm, reverse or vary the recommendation of the College/Faculty Board. The decision of the Panel shall be final. [This provision is also applicable to graduate students]

(f) Accelerated Completion of Degree/Diploma/Certificate  
This is the completion of a Course of Study in a shorter prescribed timeframe based on a student’s decision to increase his/her credit load in a given academic year, as approved by the Head of School/Department.

5. EVALUATION

5.1 The specific method of evaluation for modules will be established by each academic unit within the framework approved by the Office of Teaching and Learning. A student’s final academic standing will be determined by his/her achievement throughout the academic year or module delivery period, taking into account evaluation measures such as classroom or proctored tests and examinations, laboratory work, projects, supervised practical experiences, theses and their defence.  
Academic staff shall advise students of the method of evaluation of each module, no later than the beginning of the module delivery. [This applies to graduate students as well]

5.2 GRADING SYSTEM  
The University’s official grading system and relevant key codes are specified in Tables 1 & 2.

Table 2: Key Codes  
Status | Key  
-------|-----
Academic Misconduct | AM  
Excused | EX  
Incomplete | L  
Medical | M  
No Submission | NS  
Withdrawal from Module | WM  
Withdrawal from Course of Study with Permission | WC  
Pass | P  
Fail | F  
Deferred | DF  
Absent | AB  

Table 1: Grading Systems for both Undergraduate and Graduate Courses of Study

Performance Description | Grade | Grade Point | Percentage Scale | Comments (Undergraduate) | Comments (Graduate)
------------------------|--------|--------------|------------------|-------------------------|---------------------
Excellent | A+ | 4.3 | 90.00–100 | Pass | Pass  
 | A | 4.0 | 80.00–89.99 | Pass | Pass  
 | A− | 3.67 | 75.00–79.99 | Pass | Pass  
Good | B+ | 3.33 | 70.00–74.99 | Pass | Pass  
 | B | 3.0 | 65.00–69.99 | Pass | Pass  
 | B− | 2.67 | 60.00–64.99 | Pass | Fail  
Satisfactory | C+ | 2.33 | 55.00–59.99 | Pass | Fail  
 | C | 2.0 | 50.00–54.99 | Pass | Fail  
Unsatisfactory | D+ | 1.67 | 45.00–49.99 | Fail | Fail  
 | D | 1.3 | 40.00–44.99 | Fail | Fail  
 | E | 0.86 | 30.00–39.99 | Fail | Fail  
 | U | 0.00 | 0.00–29.99 | Fail | Fail  

An incomplete (L) grade is given when the coursework requirement is incomplete due to unforeseen circumstances. In this case, a DF for deferred result will show on the student portal. In such circumstances, students are afforded an opportunity by the lecturer to complete and submit the outstanding work no later than the validation exercise period.  
If the coursework has not been submitted, the incomplete grade will be converted to a “Fail” grade during the validation exercise, unless permitted by the College/Faculty Board of Examiners for an additional period of time not exceeding one semester. In such a case, the change is made by completing the Change of Grade form. An “L” will not affect the GPA.

An absent (AB) is assigned to students who have either withdrawn from a module without permission, missed the coursework test, or the final examination.  
Where students have failed to submit part of their assessment components without permission, such as a term paper or project, an “NS” is given.

Percentages are used to facilitate staff in marking individual assignments and examinations but are not used to express the final result.


5.3 GRADING POLICY  
5.3.1 The final result for each module is expressed as a grade and grade point.  
5.3.2 A student’s overall academic performance at the end of the academic year will be determined by weighting each module grade point earned in accordance with its credit allocation and expressed as a Grade Point Average (GPA).  
5.3.3 Except for special requirements, usually of an external nature, the final grade for a module is determined by weighting the allocation of marks for coursework assignments and final examination. The allocation to coursework may vary from 40 to 100 per cent.  
5.3.4 In a module that is examined by coursework and final examination, students may be given both their grade and percentage mark for coursework assignments. For modules examined by coursework only, the student will be given only the grade for their coursework assessments.  
5.3.5 An undergraduate module will have been passed if the final result is grade C or above. However, some modules will have a higher passing grade to meet professional requirements.  
5.3.6 If a student has failed a module, he/she must redo the module and the assessment components, including coursework and final examination. The final grade for the module will be the weighted average of new coursework and the new final exam mark.  

5.4 GRADE POINT AVERAGE (GPA)  
The GPA is a quantitative measure of a student’s performance. It is the average obtained by dividing the sum of the product of grade point and credit for each module by the total number of credits attempted.  

5.5 CALCULATION OF GPA  
5.5.1 The examples below indicate calculations for modules taken including one failed, as well as an example complete with redos. Please note that failed modules will also form part of the calculated GPA. Table 3 shows that for Semester 1, the product of grade point and credit is 53.55. This is divided by 20 (the number of credits taken). The GPA is 2.67.

Table 3: Calculated GPA for Semester 1  
Module:         S     T     V     W     X     Y     Z  
Credits:        3     3     4     4     3     2     1  
Grade:          A-    C     B+    C+    D     B     A  
Grade Points:   3.67  2.00  3.33  2.33  1.30  3.0   4.00  
Points Earned:  11.01 6.00  13.32 9.32  3.90  6.0   4.00  
Total Points = 53.55  
GPA = 53.55 / 20 = 2.67  

5.5.2 Table 4 shows the modules completed in Semester 2, including the redone module X. The GPA for this semester is 49.29 divided by 14 = 3.52, and the cumulative GPA for both semesters is (53.55 + 49.29) / (20 + 14) = 102.84 / 34 = 3.02

Table 4: Calculated GPA for Semester 2  
Module:        L     P     X (Redo)   Q     R  
Credits:       1     4     3          4     2  
Grade:         A+    A-    B          B+    A  
Grade Points:  4.3   3.67  3.0        3.33  4.00  
Points Earned: 4.30 14.67 9.00       13.32 8.00  
Total Points = 49.29  
GPA = 49.29 / 14 = 3.52  

Community Service Project (CSP1001) marks, Transfer/Exemption credits, Grade Forgiveness, approved Withdrawals, and Pass/Fail modules are not included in the GPA calculation.  

5.6 PASS/FAIL SYSTEM  
Level 3 and 4 students may enrol in three modules beyond the requirement of the Course of Study. This is to encourage students to enrich their learning by exploring other modules offered by the University. These additional modules may be credited normally or under the Pass/Fail system.  
When credited normally, the grade will affect the GPA. Under the Pass/Fail system, a student will be given a “P” when a grade of “C-” or better is obtained or an “F” for a failing grade, but neither the “P” nor the “F” will affect the GPA.  
Students wishing to enrol in a module as Pass/Fail should complete the Pass/Fail form (available at the Student Affairs Office) and submit it to the Programme Director within six weeks or five weeks of the start of the semester or summer session, respectively. Otherwise, the module will be treated normally and the final result will affect the GPA.  

6. CLASSES OF ACADEMIC AWARDS  

To obtain an award, all modules satisfying the conditions stipulated in the course of study must be passed. The regulations governing classes of academic awards will apply to new students incoming 2021/2022 and will be implemented as follows.  
[In the case of returning students, the class of awards will be based on the regulation governing the year they commenced their studies at UTech, Jamaica.]  

6.1 BACHELOR’S DEGREES  
The cumulative GPA of Levels 2 to 4 modules will determine the class of award, beginning with students entering a new course of study in AY 2018/2019.  
Post-diploma/Articulated Students: The GPA of all post-diploma modules will determine the class of award, irrespective of whether some are Lower Level modules.  

6.1.1 FIRST CLASS (HONOURS)  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 3.67.  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  
c. All modules must be passed at the first sitting.  
The President’s Pin will be awarded to First Class (Honours) students who achieve a cumulative GPA of 4.0 and above.  

6.1.2 SECOND CLASS UPPER (HONOURS)  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 3.33.  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  

6.1.3 SECOND CLASS LOWER (HONOURS)  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.67.  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  

6.1.4 PASS  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00.  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  

6.2 DIPLOMAS  

6.2.1 WITH HONOURS  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0.  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  
c. All modules must be passed at the first sitting.  

6.2.2 WITH CREDIT  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.67.  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  

6.2.3 PASS  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00.  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  

6.3 ASSOCIATE DEGREES AND CERTIFICATES  

6.3.1 WITH MERIT  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 3.16  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  
c. All modules must be passed at the first sitting.  

6.3.2 PASS  
a. A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00.  
b. The Course of Study must be completed within the maximum timeframe.  

7. COMMUNITY SERVICE PROGRAMME (CSP)  
All undergraduate courses of study (Bachelor’s Degree, Diplomas and Associate Degrees) or diploma students at UTech, Jamaica are expected to contribute a minimum of 45 hours of their time to a Community Service Project (CSP1001) assignment of their choice in an institutional or community setting approved by the University.  
Successful completion of the Community Service Project (CSP) is required for graduation and will earn a student one credit. However, this credit will not be used when determining the GPA or class of award.


8. POLICY FOR EFFECTING STUDENT NAME CHANGE

A student may request that official records be adjusted to reflect a change in his/her name. For graduating students, requests should be made no later than September 30 of the graduating year.

The request should be made by completing, in duplicate, the Application for Effecting Name Change form, available at the Student Records Office. A certified copy of the legal document attesting to the change must accompany the application.

The Student Records Office will, after receiving the request, effect the change on the student’s records and send a copy of the form to the Head of School. The name that will be used on a student’s academic records is that which occurs on the last registration form completed by the student, unless a request for change of name is made.

A name change will not be effected after a student has left the University.

The Dean’s List

The Dean’s List prepared at the end of each academic year recognizes those students who have achieved academic distinction in a College/Faculty. To qualify, the student must attain the following:

a. GPA of 3.67 and above  
b. Passes in all modules on the first attempt

General Criteria:  
The Dean’s List is applicable only for students doing the Bachelor’s Degree who have taken a minimum of 24 credits within the specified academic year.
