division_of_student_services_and_registery.txt



DIVISION OF STUDENT SERVICES AND REGISTRY PERSONNEL

University Registrar
Marion Brown

Deputy Registrar
Barry Thomas

Assistant Registrar Student Services
Dorsett Gabbidon-Pottinger

Assistant Registrar Admissions and Enrolment
Clayton Moore

Assistant Registrar Student Records
Ann-Marie Lodge

Assistant Registrar Examinations
Sally Carter

Assistant Registrar University Secretariat
Charmagne Murphy

Supervisor, Admissions
Stephanie Morris

Enrolment Officer (Actg.)
Amoy Hibbert

Senior Counsellor
……..

Counsellor
……..

Career and Placement Officer
Charmaine Lewis

Accommodation Officer
Angella Isaacs-Brown

International Students’ Coordinator
Janice Sinclair-Morgan

Student Relations Officer
Tamika Christian-Mills

Scheduling Officer
Rosie-Lyn Binns

Governance Officer
Dennis Palmer


DIVISION OF STUDENT SERVICES AND REGISTRY

 OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 
The Division of Student Services and Registry is 
headed by the University Registrar, Ms Marion 
Brown, who is an Officer of the University. It is 
responsible for matters relating to University 
Governance and Corporate Records, as well as 
administering the affairs of students, from 
admission to graduation. The Division also han
dles requests for academic records including 
transcripts and statements. The Office of the 
Registrar, which is located on the mezzanine 
floor of the main Administration Building, may 
be reached on telephone numbers: 876-970
5034/5035. 

UNIVERSITY SECRETARIAT 
The University Registrar serves as Secretary to 
the University Council and Academic Board, 
Faculty and College Boards and all Standing, 
Special or Advisory Committees set up by these 
bodies. Management of these bodies is coordi
nated and facilitated by the University Secretar
iat which provides administrative, advisory 
and/or secretarial support. The University  
Secretariat plays a significant role in the devel
opment, dissemination, revision and interpreta
tion of the University Governance instruments. 


It is a repository of information on all matters 
relating to University Governance. In this 
context, the University Secretariat provides 
advice and guidance on matters of jurisdiction, 
strategy, policy and process to all members of 
the University Community. The University  
Secretariat also has responsibility for, inter alia, 
managing university elections, the use of the 
University’s ceremonial symbols and University 
Seal. The Office is headed by an Assistant Reg
istrar, University Secretariat, Mrs. Charmagne 
Murphy. 

STUDENT RELATIONS OFFICE 
The Office of Student Relations (OSR) aims to 
improve relationships among students, faculty 
and administrators by being an advocate and 
support centre.  The Office of Student Relations  
also serves as a resource centre for College/ 
Faculty Student Academic Affairs Committees 
CSAAC/FSAAC, Faculty Administrators, the  
University’s counsellors, Non-Papine or off-site 
Campuses and Central Administration on the 
University’s policies, and regulations pertaining 
to students. Student matters handled by the 
Office include requests for consideration by  
the CSAAC/FSAAC, such as deferrals, leave of 
absences, withdrawals, change of status,  
reinstatements, non-academic misconduct, 
refunds, absence from examinations due to ill
ness, and queries of a general nature. The deci
sions emanating from these requests are 
prepared by the Office and sent to students 
and then dispatched to the relevant 
department(s) for processing. Students who 
have been affected by extenuating 
circumstances are also supported by the OSR as 
their cases are pre-sented to senior academic 
and administrative managers for further review.  
Appeals against decisions made by student
related committees and student complaints are 
also handled by the OSR. Students’ issues are 
always dealt with equitably, guided by the 
University’s policies. The OSR is located on the 
ground floor of the Student Services Building 
and can be reached at: Exts. 2008/2359; or 
email: 
tchristian@utech.edu.jm. The OSR officer is    
Ms. Tamika Christian. 

ACADEMIC SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
This department is responsible for administer
ing student academic services in the areas of 
admissions, examinations, student records and 
scheduling of the University’s teaching time
table and classroom facilities, coordinating 
activities related to academic misconduct and 
recommending/developing student-related 
academic policies and procedures. Each area is 
headed by a supervisor who oversees its day-
to-day activities. Other responsibilities include 
interpreting the University’s academic regula
tions to staff and students, publishing the Stu
dent Handbook, and preparing Academic 
Awards for the graduation ceremony. The Dep
uty Registrar, Mr Barry Thomas, may be reached 
by telephone: 876-927-1680, ext. 2441 or 2255 
and 876-970-5441. The office is located on the 
mezzanine floor of the main Administration 
Building.

OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS & ENROLMENT MANAGEMENT 
The Office of Admissions and Enrolment Man-
agement (OAEM) is responsible for developing 
admissions and enrolment management pol
icies and procedures and ensuring that these 
procedures are adhered to. The Office has the 
responsibility for quality control in the selection 
of applicants and the management of the 
enrolment of students for various programmes 
in each College/Faculty at each campus loca
tion. In addition, the OAEM monitors student 
attrition and progress from admission to com
pletion of programmes through the prepara
tion, maintenance and analysis of statistical 
data with a view to monitoring trends in all the 
University’s programmes, and making rec
ommendations and projections based on these 
trends. The OAEM plays an integral role in pro
moting the institution both locally and over
seas. The OAEM is located behind the EduCom 
Credit Union and is managed by Mr Clayton 
Moore, Assistant Registrar. He may be con
tacted at 876-970-5003 or 876-970-5073. 

UNIVERSITY EXAMINATIONS CENTRE 
The University Examinations Centre (UEC) 
administers all major university examinations 
for undergraduates and post-graduates for all 
campuses locally, overseas and franchises/ 
outreach sites. The UEC also prepares and issues 
examination cards to students. The Centre is 
also responsible for the preparation of 
examination timetables, for all UTech, Ja. cam
puses and franchises, assigning of venues and 
scheduling invigilators for examinations.  
The UEC is the secretariat for Academic Miscon
duct Inquiry Panels (AMIP) and Special Appeal 
Committee (SAC) cases. The Centre is directly 
supervised by Assistant Registrar, Miss Sally 
Carter, and may be reached by tele-phone: 
876-970-5000. The Centre is located on the
 ground floor of the Administration Building.
 Student visits to the Centre are not allowed.
 
STUDENT RECORDS OFFICE 
The Student Records Office: 
• maintains a filing system of records of past
 and current students
 • creates files for new students, updates files
 as necessary, safeguards the security and
 confidentiality of all students’ files, liaises
 with Colleges/Faculties regarding all
 students’ academic records
 • stores and safeguards all examination
 results received
 • prepares and dispatches transcripts/state
ments/status letters and other student
 academic records, and provides external
 organizations with information relating to
 students and alumni status, in accordance
 with approved procedures
 • processes students’ academic awards for
 graduation
 • prepares statistical data and reports, as
 scheduled or requested
 • verifies the authenticity of academic
 awards, transcripts /status letters

The Office is directly supervised by Miss Ann 
Lodge, Assistant Registrar, Student Records  and 
may be reached by telephone:  876-927-1680, 
exts. 2015, 2016 or 2020. The Office is located 
on the ground floor of the Administration 
Building.

SCHEDULING OFFICE 
The Scheduling Office is responsible for  man
aging the operations and administration of all 
aspects of the University’s teaching timetable 
and classroom facilities. The unit guides the 
scheduling processes and ensures efficient and 
effective use and allocation of the University’s 
teaching resources from an institutional rather 
than a particular academic area perspective. 
The process incorporates the accurate collation 
of information relating to staff, students, curri
culum and teaching resources. In addition, the 
 unit processes ad hoc room booking requests for 
other non-teaching-based activities. 
The Office is supervised by Miss Rosie-Lyn Binns 
and is currently located at the Joan Duncan 
School of Entrepreneurship, Ethics and Leader
ship Building.  Telephone: 876-970-5628, ext. 
2628, 2571, 2539. 


OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT REGISTRAR WESTERN CAMPUS
 The Assistant Registrar Western Campus is the 
chief representative of the Division at the West
ern Campus.  Under the direction of the Univer
sity Registrar she is responsible for managing and 
coordinating various aspects of the Divi-sion’s 
work at the Western Campus spanning the Office 
of the Registrar, Academic Services and Student 
Services.  She works closely with other 
stakeholders and plays a strategic role in 
advancing the Division’s mandate providing 
support to students through various stages of the 
student’s life cycle. 
Important Contact Numbers: 
Assistant Registrar – Western Campus 876 
927-1680 EXT 2708; (OR 876 940-1621, 876
 940-2194)


STUDENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
The Department of the Student Services pro
vides a wide range of support and professional 
assistance designed to enhance student experi
ence upon admission to the University and 
throughout their sojourn to graduation.  The 
staff in collaboration with both internal and 
external service providers make every effort to 
meet the needs of the students. 
The Assistant Registrar, Student Services, has 
direct responsibilities for the student support 
services inclusive of the Orientation Pro
gramme, Student Leadership Development  
Programmes, Student Insurance, Special Needs 
Students, and Chaplaincy. The Assistant Reg
istrar also chairs the Graduation Committee 
meetings. 
Mrs. Dorrset Gabbidon-Pottinger is currently  
the Assistant Registrar, Student Services. She 
may be contacted by telephone at:  
876-970-5193/5280/5837. Her email address is 
dpottinger@utech.edu.jm.
 Other email include:   
studentsservices@utech.edu.jm. 
Please communicate with us on facebook at 
(UTech, Jamaica-Student Services). 

DIVISION OF STUDENT SERVICES AND REGISTRY
 ORIENTATION 

WHAT IS ORIENTATION? 
Orientation, or as we call it here at the University 
of Technology, Jamaica the ‘Week Of Welcome’ 
(W.O.W) is what you get, a “WOW” experience! 
Usually, the 3rd week of August is busy with the 
orientation activities. It is intentional that each 
experience welcomes, informs, entertains, 
inspires and propels the new student into  
readiness for their academic success.   
All new and transfer students are required to 
participate in the week-long Orientation Pro
gramme, which contributes to the First Year 
Experience Programme. Being new in a large 
institution such as the University of Technology, 
Jamaica, can be very daunting. The orientation 
programme captures a vibrant campus 
atmosphere that make adjustments easier and 
allows all new students to confidently face the 
challenges and opportunities of University life. 

WHY DO YOU NEED TO ATTEND 
ORIENTATION? 
The Orientation Programme showcases the Uni
versity’s history, traditions, available services in 
and outside of the colleges/faculties, co-curric
ular programmes and academic requirements. 
All of this is crucial and beneficial to every stu
dent attending the University and presents nec
essary guidelines for a smooth transition. The 
Induction Ceremony, with its pomp and 
pageantry is the culminating event of the week. 
New students are inducted into the University
at this formal ceremony, chaired by a senior 
member of the University, attended by the Uni
versity Chancellor, Officers of the University, the 
Students’ Union President and the Academic 
and Administrative staff.  
LEADERSHIP 
At the University of Technology, Jamaica we 
build, empower and produce leaders of excep
tional character. As such, students are devel
oped and trained to perform leadership roles 
with the utmost discipline, creativity and con
fidence. The programmes geared to cultivate 
the culture of exemplary leadership include: the 
Student Leadership Programme, the UTech 
(IRSS)/Student Leadership Development  
Programme and our High School Mentoring 
Programme. 
STUDENT LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 
At the University of Technology, Jamaica we 
believe in training our leaders for effective  
governance within the ambits of the University 
and beyond. We prepare leaders for tomorrow, 
leaders of substance who will forcefully 
advance nation building.  
At our annual conference, student leaders are 
challenged to consider representational leader
ship at the national level as well as to nurture 
mindsets to impact global governance. All stu
dents elected and appointed to serve in leader
ship positions on the Students’ Union Council 
and on the Halls of Residence are required to attend the Student Leadership Conference at 
the end of the second semester. The Confer
ence functions as the vehicle that drives the 
requisite training  to assist all student leaders in 
the execution of their respective duties. They 
are exposed to areas of student governance, 
finance management, communication, dining 
etiquette, protocol, conflict resolution, strategic 
planning and team building exercises.  
WHO ARE OUR LEADERS? 
Our Leaders are undergraduate and postgradu
ate students from varying backgrounds,  
disciplines and year levels. 
What brings them together is a passion for 
serving and representing their peers, making a 
difference, and a dedication to enhancing the 
Student Experience at the University of  
Technology, Jamaica. 
WHY SHOULD ONE PARTICIPATE IN STUDENT 
LEADERSHIP? IT IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO: 
• Inspire and represent others and be the
 change you want to see;
 • Develop your communication and inter
personal skills and enhance your employ
ability;
 • Build your University-wide networks;
 • Foster your commitment and engagement 
to service through various conferences,
 workshops, events and professional
 development


  WHO IS ELIGIBLE? 
To be a Student Leader, you must: 
• have a GPA of 2.7 for the academic year.
 • be a registered student at the University
 • apply for an appointed post
 Kindly see our Students’ Union Council website 
for more information www.utechstudents
union.com 
UTech, JA INTERNATIONAL RECRUITING 
STAFFING SOLUTIONS (IRSS)/STUDENT 
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT  
If you are interested in leadership, particularly 
geared towards politics and community devel
opment, then UTech/IRSS Student Leadership 
Development Programme is for you. You may 
join various sessions geared towards devel
oping your leadership skills, as well as partici
pate in community outreach tours and projects. 
The programme targets 2nd to 4th year stu
dents of the University of Technology, Ja. Sec
ond year students can participate in 4 of 6 
on-campus leadership development training 
workshop/seminar sessions held over 2 semes
ters and 2 off-campus civic type engagements – 
one each semester – which seek to enhance 
students’ political awareness and involvement.  
Third year students can participate in two (2) 
leadership development workshops and a 
major community-based service project. 
Fourth (4th) year students will have the  
opportunity to participate in a study abroad
programme to some overseas institutions with 
which UTech, Ja. already has a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU).   

Student leadership development is an essential 
goal for any university to achieve, as it prepares 
students to be well-rounded and able to con
tribute to the improvement of their society and 
the world at large. It is on this basis that the 
Department of Student Services, funded by 
International Recruiting Staffing Solutions 
(IRSS), has developed a programme referred to 
as the ‘UTech/IRSS Student Leadership Devel
opment Programme’. 

HIGH SCHOOL MENTORING PROGRAMME 
The High School Mentoring Programme, is a 
collaboration between the Student Services 
Department and the Environmental Health 
Foundation which prepares and develops  
students from the University of Technology, 
Jamaica to offer mentorship to participating 
high school students.  

Mentorship usually involves educational and 
social development especially for students who 
may come from ‘broken homes.’ Programmes 
and activities are usually scheduled around 
mentors’ and mentees’ timetables to ensure 
that they are substantial and fulfilling. 

WHY SHOULD ONE GET INVOLVED IN THE  
HIGH SCHOOL MENTORING PROGRAMME? 
Mentoring is  only one component of a  
programme that involves other elements. The 
programme offers many benefits to the stu
dents of the University if they get involved. The 
benefits garnered are: tutoring, coaching or life 
skills training, interpersonal skills development 
and the ability to understand different person
alities. The supportive, healthy relationships 
formed between mentors and mentees are 
both immediate and long-term and can  
contribute to the society at large. 

Benefits to the ‘mentees’: 
• Increased matriculation into university
 • Lower high school dropout rates
 • Healthier relationships and lifestyle choices
 • Improved students’ attitude toward attend
ing University
 • Enhanced self-esteem and self-confidence
 • Improved behaviour at home and at school 
• Stronger relationships with parents,
 teachers, and peers.
 • Empowerment to become nation builders
 If you have an interest in mentoring a high 
school student, contact Mrs. Mitchel Muir-John
son at Mitchel.muir-johnson@utech.edu.jm 

STUDENT INSURANCE 
MEDICAL 
All registered students at the University of Tech
nology, Jamaica (UTech, Ja.) are covered under 
the UTech, Ja. Student Insurance Plan (Health, 
Personal Accident and Group Life) with Sagicor 
Life Jamaica Limited. 

 GROUP HEALTH PLAN (GROUP HEALTH 
POLICY) 
• There is a one-time deductible fee of three
 thousand dollars ($3000.00) paid after
 benefits have been exhausted under the
 basic plan, thereby making you eligible for
 benefits under major medical. This may be
 a one-time payment or an accumulation of
 payments over the policy year.
 SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH PLAN – 
( FOR HOSPITALIZATION) 
There is a one-time deductible fee of ten thou
sand dollars ($10,000.00) to be paid before 
accessing the hospitalization benefits from the 
supplemental plan. However, laboratory, x-ray 
and physiotherapy are exempted from this 
deductible. 
I NSURED STUDENTS ARE COVERED IN THE 
EVENT OF:  
1.
 2.
 3.
 Death by Natural Cause (Group Life Policy)
 Personal Injury
 Death Resulting from Accident (Personal
 Accident Policy)
 SUBMISSION OF CLAIMS IN RELATION TO 
PERSONAL ACCIDENT POLICY 
• Students are covered on and off campus,
 24 hours/365 days of the year (global cov
erage)
 • All Personal Accident claims should be sub
mitted to the Office of Insurance and Spe
cial Needs within thirty (30) days from the
 occurrence of an accident. The final dead
line for medical claims submissions is 
ninety (90) days from the occurrence of the 
accident. 
• There is a one-time deductible fee of two
 hundred and fifty dollars ($250), which is
 considered as the student’s out-of- pocket 
expense for the first claim made during the
 contract period, September 1–August 31.
 • Only claims related to or derived from the
 accident will be processed. Claims for taxi
 fare, food, etc. will not be honoured. The
 Schedule of Benefits may be obtained from
 the Office of Insurance and Special Needs.
 COLLECTION OF HEALTH CARD 
• All first year, articulated and advanced
 placed students can collect their Health
 Insurance Cards at their College/Faculty
 office. All other Health Insurance related
 matters can be dealt with at the Office of
 Insurance and Special Needs  at the stu
dent services building
 • NB:  Health Insurance cards are issued only
 once from Sagicor Life Jamaica Limited,
 our current provider, hence the card is
 valid up until completion of a programme 
of study. Benefits are uploaded to the
 Health Card each academic year.
 • Replacing Health Insurance cards will
 attract a fee of three hundred dollars 
($300.00).

 SPECIAL NEEDS STUDENTS 
Schools, colleges and universities globally
 ensure that students with disabilities or severe 
illnesses are given the attention and care they 
need to make their academic pursuit a success. 
In light of this, the University of Technology, 
Jamaica provides a number of services for per
sons with disabilities designed  specially to 
ensure that they have proper access while pur
suing their studies and are able to participate 
fully in university life.  
Under the theme “removing barriers and cre
ating access and independence for special 
needs student”, the Office of Insurance and 
Special Needs in Student Services department 
ensures that students with physical, medical, or 
psychological disabilities have equal access to 
university programmes and services. 
• Appropriate academic accommodations
 can be requested based on the student’s
 functional limitations. This must be verified
 by a medical practitioner and be further
 evaluated by our UTech, Ja. Medical Centre
 and/or Counselling Unit.
 • At Student Services, the staff will explain
 the academic accommodation process,
 including the documentation that must be 
submitted relating to the student’s health
 condition, along with input from the stu
dent’s health care professional.
 • Students who believe they have undia
gnosed disability should obtain an eval
uation through the University Counselling
 Service (876-970-5028) or private health
 care provider.
 • Diagnosed students can request academic
 accommodation.
 • Student academic accommodation is sent 
to the faculty explaining the accommoda
tions that have been approved by the spe
cial needs unit.
 • The student’s condition or diagnosis is not
 discussed with the instructors. However,
 instructors may need to discuss the accom
modations with the student to determine
 how best to implement them.


 SPECIAL NEEDS UNIT 
Special Needs Students may make arrange
ments for special requirements during online 
and or face to face learning and assessments, 
such as: 
• Readers
 • Scribes
 • Large print
 • Lab assistance
 • Special tutoring
 • Additional time
 • Rest period or supervised breaks
 • Special facilities for in-course tests and
 examination
 • Interpretation Services
 • Housing accommodation
 • Screen reader to be placed on computer
 monitors
 • Assistance with registration at Jamaica
 Council for Persons with Disability.
 • The Job Access Work System (JAWS)
available in the Language, Teaching and 
Research Centre and the Library to assist 
visually impaired students. 

Registration and enrollment to the Special 
Needs Unit can be done through coordination 
with the Counselling Unit, Registrar’s Office or 
College/Faculty Administrators. Our Services 
are impartial, non-judgmental and confidential. 

For additional information to register, please 
contact Office of Insurance and Special Needs 
at Student Services at 876-970-5837 or the 
Medical Centre at 876-970-5459 or email:  
studentsservices@utech.edu.jm.  

CHAPLAINCY 
The Chaplains lead worship and run social, spir
itual and educational events for the students of 
the University of Technology, Jamaica. The very 
foundation of the work that we do at the Uni
versity of Technology, Jamaica is about creating 
an environment for the students where they 
feel safe and can share their experiences and 
get spiritual advice on every area of their lives. 
Whether you are part of a particular 
religious/spiritual community or not, we wel
come you! The Team comprises: 


Contact Details for Chaplains:



Name: Dr. Rev. Alison Iton
Contact Information: (876) 512-0201
Email: [alisoniton@gmail.com](mailto:alisoniton@gmail.com)
Chapel Day: 2nd & 3rd Sundays
Chapel Time: 9:30 – 11:30 am
Pastoral Counselling Sessions:
Mondays: 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.

---

Name: Father Irenaeus Vincent
Contact Information: Not listed
Email: [irenaeus.vincent@english.opp.org](mailto:irenaeus.vincent@english.opp.org)
Chapel Day: Not listed
Chapel Time: Not listed
Pastoral Counselling Sessions:
Fridays: 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.

---

Name: Rev. Dr. Stevenson A.M. Samuels
Contact Information: (876) 371-1587 / (876) 547-0636
Email: [stevensonsam@yahoo.com](mailto:stevensonsam@yahoo.com)
Chapel Day: Not listed
Chapel Time: Not listed
Pastoral Counselling Sessions:
Thursdays: 3:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.

---

Name: Mrs. Carol Richards
Contact Information: (876) 434-6375
Email: [crujaamica@gmail.com](mailto:crujaamica@gmail.com)
Chapel Day: Not listed
Chapel Time: Not listed
Pastoral Counselling Sessions:
Wednesdays: 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.

---

Name: Mrs. Audrey M. Dawes-Jarrett
Contact Information: (876) 797-6021
Email: [Audrey.dawes@utech.edu.jm](mailto:Audrey.dawes@utech.edu.jm) or [dawesjarrett@gmx.com](mailto:dawesjarrett@gmx.com)
Chapel Day: Not listed
Chapel Time: Not listed
Pastoral Counselling Sessions:
Tuesdays: 1:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.
Wednesdays: 10:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.
Thursdays: 3:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m.

---

Name: Pastor Holland Thompson
Contact Information: Not listed
Email: [Tomlandus@yahoo.com](mailto:Tomlandus@yahoo.com)
Chapel Day: Not listed
Chapel Time: Not listed
Pastoral Counselling Sessions:
Tuesdays: 1:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.

---

ACCOMMODATION 
The University currently provides 191 single 
occupancy bed spaces (in a total of seven (7) 
residential facilities.  The Halls are designed as 
follows; Male only facilities – Farquharson Hall 
and Hall F; Female only facilities – Garvey Hall, 
and Halls A, B, and E; Co-ed only facility – Den
nis Johnson Hall of residence. Each Hall is man
aged by a Resident Manager supported by a 
Student Executive Body, with overall manage
ment assigned to the Accommodation Officer. 
Each hall is equipped with all the basic amen
ities for your comfort, and is protected by an 
electronic security system, Access is gained 
through the use of an electronic access card. 
Several developmental programmes and activ
ities are designed and structured for the res
idents’ holistic development, and enjoyment.   
Boarding fees are paid per semester, however, 
full payment can be made at the start of the 
academic year.  Fees are paid prior to the start 
of each semester. The payment dates are in 
accordance with the payment schedule 
decided by the University.  Accepted applicants 
are required to pay a non-refundable Boarding 
Commitment Fee (BCF), which is a percentage 
of the total boarding fee.  
For students interested in living on Halls, the 
application period is October 1 to January 31. 
Students may complete this process online, by 
accessing the website at 
www.utechjamaica.edu.jm.  Click on students, 
and then "apply for boarding'.  The completed 
application form must be submitted to the 
Accommodation Office by January 31, in order to 
be considered for boarding.  Incomplete forms 
will be deemed void.   
Should there be challenges encountered while 
completing this form, students may contact the 
Accommodation Unit for assistance at telephone 
numbers 876-970-5191/5262 /5847/5841, and or 
by email boarding4@utech.edu.jm. 
In the event that a student is not accepted for on
campus boarding, the Accommodation Unit 
assists in finding suitable and affordable off 
campus accommodation.  
C AREER AND PLACEMENT UNIT 
This Unit engages in activities that are geared 
towards students’ and graduates’ total prepa
redness for employment and or entrepreneur
ship. 
The Unit constantly liaises with: 
 • students and alumni to establish and assist
 in fulfilling their goals;
 • administration and academic departments 
regarding programmes and activities for 
students and alumni;
 • corporate society to identify job placement
 opportunities and general trends in 
demand

SERVICES OFFERED 
Career Advisement: This service is offered to 
students individually or in small groups.  In 
scheduled sessions, students can explore career 
options, complete career assessment instru
ments, get insight into the employment pro
cess, review items such as résumés and cover 
letters and be referred to other relevant serv
ices available on, or off the campus. 

Résumé Clinic: Students receive help to  
create/review items such as résumés, cover 
letters, and career portfolios. 

Mock Interviews: The Unit provides an oppor
tunity for final year students to sharpen their 
interviewing techniques, through “real life” 
interviews with human resource professionals 
from both corporate Jamaica and the Univer
sity.  Students are provided with valuable feed
back and general coaching on their overall 
performance.    

Employment Empowerment Sessions: A series 
of sessions are held over two semesters, with 
approximately seven (7) sessions each 
semester.  The sessions are geared towards 
equipping students with the necessary 
“employability skills” for them to function  
effectively in the job market.  

Fit to Recruit Charity: This initiative is geared 
towards assisting those male students with 
financial difficulties in obtaining professional 
attire for their job interviews. Since the incep
tion of this initiative, over 80 males have been
suited in our efforts to help them advance into 
the world of work.  

Mentoring Programme: This is a collaborative 
effort between the Unit, members of the Divi
sion of Student Services and Registry and the 
Alumni Office.  The programme is geared 
towards matching third and final year students 
with successful professionals within their field 
of study, who will act as mentors providing 
some additional support necessary for students 
to transition successfully into the world of work. 

Annual Job Fair: This series of events is the 
Units’ major recruitment drive and is held in 
semester two of the academic year.  Final year 
students are given an opportunity to network 
with Human Resource professionals and other 
personnel who are able to offer employment or 
advice.  The Fair also includes an entrepreneurial 
component. 

YouTube: In an effort to share the experience 
and activities of the Unit, we have recorded and 
posted videos of our initiatives and programs. 
You can subscribe to our channel: Career and 
Placement Unit UTech, Ja. 

Job Placement: The Unit assists students/ 
alumni in gaining employment or exposure to 
the working world.  The following forms of 
employment can be obtained through the Unit: 
 • Full-time
 • Part-time
 • Company-initiated internships
 • Referrals for Internship opportunities
 • Seasonal – e.g., during the summer, weekend
 • Voluntary

 Maximize your university education through 
your interaction with this Unit by taking time 
out to do the following:
 • Get to know more about your interests,
 values and abilities by visiting us to do a
 career and or personality assessment.
 • Get advice when deciding to choose a
 major or making other career related deci
sions.
 • Attend our weekly Employment Empower
ment Sessions, Thursday afternoons 3pm 
4pm, in Lecture Theatre 4(LT4).  Come and
 leave feeling empowered to take on the
 world of work.
 • Experience real interviews through partici
pating in our mock interview sessions;
 • Visit us to revamp your résumé.
 • Join our mentoring programme.  You may
 view our mentoring handbook for further
 information on the programme at
 www.utechjamaica.edu.jm/mentor.pdf
 • Apply for job placement and become a
 part of the pool of job applicants prepared
 for job opportunities as soon as they
 become available.
 • Network with prospective employers at our
 annual job fair to be held in March.
 • Join us on Facebook (Placement UTech)
 and get constant updates on activities and
 events
 • Visit our webpage http://www.utechjamaica.edu.jm/campus-experience/career
placement. Get updates on upcoming
 events, and discuss topics related to your
 career development.

To participate in any of the above activities and 
events please email us at 
placement@utech.edu.jm., call us directly at 
(876) 970-5030/5267 or visit us at the Depart
ment of Student Services located on the Papine
Campus.

COUNSELLING UNIT 
As we go through life, we are faced with many 
personal decisions and challenging problems. 
These can be difficult and sometimes overwhel
ming to handle.  Many problems are solved 
through discussions with colleagues, friends, 
family, a lecturer, tutor, nurse, chaplain or coun
sellor. In some instances, it is best to obtain 
assistance away from one’s familiar daily envi
ronment.  

The University’s Counselling Unit is available to 
assist in addressing the needs of individuals 
who find it too challenging to adequately cope 
with life’s situations.  Getting professional help 
is about seeking viable options towards posi
tive change and empowerment in one’s life. 
Although there is no quick fix to every situation, 
talking confidentially with a trained profes
sional is a major step towards resolving an 
issue. 


THE COUNSELLING TEAM 
The Unit is staffed by a psychiatrist (part-time), 
a team of trained psychologists (psychothera
pists), and chaplains.  They are all competently 
trained in helping clients from varying back
grounds and cultures, with a wide range of  
personal and other issues. 
As counselling is a process that seeks to assist 
clients to focus on, and understand more 
clearly the issues that are affecting them, the 
counsellor’s role is to provide support and 
understanding, while listening and giving a 
non-judgmental response.  Our counsellors 
respect your values, choices and lifestyle, and 
want you to experience the best quality life 
while at the University of Technology, Jamaica. 
DURATION OF SESSIONS 
Typically, each counselling session lasts for fifty 
(50) minutes. However, shorter or longer ses
sions are sometimes held – depending on the
 circumstances.  While some matters might need 
only one session, others could necessitate
 months of regular visits.  Additional sessions
 can be arranged at the counsellors’ discretion.
 All information given at the counselling session 
is held in the strictest confidence, unless the 
client gives instructions otherwise.


Confidential sessions are held on the following 
issues: 
• Abuse
• Addiction
• Adjustment
• Alcohol
• Anger
• Anxiety and Panic Attacks
• Assertiveness
• Change and Transitions
• Concentration Techniques 
• Depression
• Disabilities
• Financial
• Grief and Loss
• HIV / AIDS
• Insomnia
• Loneliness
• Parental Separation / Divorce 
• Phobias
• Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
• Psychiatry
• Rape
• Relationships
• Relaxation Techniques
• Religion/Chaplaincy
• Self-Esteem
• Self-Injury / Suicide
• Sex and Sexuality
• Stress
• Time Management
• Trauma

 SUPPORT GROUPS AND PROGRAMMES 
 • Risk Reduction
 • Conflict Resolution
 • Conflict Reduction Techniques
 • Consultations and Referrals
 • Bereavement Counselling
 • Focus on Healthy Lifestyles
 • Coping Skills
 • Holistic Counselling
 • Counselling Seminars
 • Individual and Group Therapy

OTHER PROGRAMMES 
Peer Counsellors’ Training (LINX)  

LINX – “Reaching Out, Connecting”. This pro
gram trains students to counsel their peers. 
Training is facilitated through lectures, discus
sions, exercises, and role plays. General counsel
ling techniques are stressed, through special 
presentations on assertiveness, decision-mak
ing, referrals, crisis intervention, and substance 
abuse issues, among other activities. 

FIRST YEAR EXPERIENCE 
The First Year Experience Programme (FYE), 
aims to help first year students adjust respon
sibly to the challenges of university life, and 
maximize their potential for academic success. 

Opening Hours 
The Counselling Unit is open Monday to Thursday from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., and 8:00 a.m. to 
4:00 p.m. on Friday.   
Clients are encouraged to make appointments 
in order to enable the smooth flow of opera
tions. However, emergencies and walk-ins are 
accommodated based on need and consideration. 

Contact Us 
The Counselling Unit is located upstairs the 
Medical Centre. 
Telephone: 876-970-5029, Extensions: 2028, 
2460 

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS’ OFFICE 
The University has an International Students’ 
Office (ISO) which is specifically equipped to 
support our international students by facilitat
ing their recruitment, registration, accommoda
tion and sponsorship. 
To facilitate their adjustment to the new envi
ronment, the ISO organizes a number of func
tions for international students.  A City Tour is 
organized in August to familiarize students with 
places they need to know in Kingston and St. 
Andrew and the immediate environs of the 
UTech, Ja. campus.  In September, the ISO hosts 
a reception to formally welcome students to 
the UTech, Ja. family and in April the Registrar 
hosts a dinner for all final-year international 
students.

Additionally, the ISO assists students with stu
dent-related services, including passport and 
immigration related issues, guidance and 
refer-ences for opening bank accounts and 
basic security and safety guidelines.  
Throughout the year, the University of 
Technol-ogy, Jamaica, International Students’ 
Association (UTISA), supported by the ISO, 
hosts other activities that showcase the 
students’ unique cultures and talents, and 
plans excursions, and other non-academic 
activities. 
Finally and importantly, the ISO assists with 
the recruitment of international students and 
pro-motes the University overseas. 
The Office is located at the Student Services 
Building and is managed by the International 
Students’ Coordinator, Mrs. Janice Sinclair- 
Morgan.  She can be contacted by e-mail:  
jsinclair@utech.edu.jm or telephone: 
876-927-1680-8, extensions 2179/2194.
 Q UICK TIPS AND USEFUL INFORMATION 
FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENT S 
1.Know the International Students’ Office.
 It should be your point of reference
 through-out your tenure at UTech. Ensure
 that the ISO has your current address and
 tele-phone contacts at all times.
 2. Secure the necessary ‘Extension of Stay’ for
 studying in Jamaica.
 3. Collect your health card from your Faculty/
 College.
 4. Register with your country’s local con
sulate/embassy.
 5. Contact the Financial Aid Office for scholar
ships and earn and study opportunities.
 6. Be aware of your surroundings at all times; 
ensure that you read the security and safety 
brochures prepared by that department. 
 7. Read your Student Handbook; familiarize
 yourself with the policies and rules govern
ing students and the operations of the
 University.
 8. Know your Students’ Union representatives.
 9.Participate in activities organized by the
 ISO and the University of Technology,
 Jamaica, International Students’ Associa
tion (UTISA), virtual or otherwise.   These
 activities are planned for your benefit and
 your full participation is vital to your
 success.
 10. Get involved in clubs and societies offered
 through the Students’ Union Council.
 11. Pay your tuition fees on time. Ensure that
 all financial issues are settled on time.
 12. Participate in dorm activities. You are
 only  guaranteed space for the first year.
 Reten-tion of accommodation on Hall is
 partially dependent on your involvement
 in res-ident life activities.

INFORMATION FOR NEW INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 

Contact with the International Students’ 
Office: The most important contact for inter
national students is the International Students’ 
Office (ISO). The ISO is located on the first floor 
of the Student Services Building, beside the 
Medical Centre.  The ISO will assist you with all 
the necessary information for the first few days 
in Jamaica.  It is important that the ISO is kept 
abreast of your contact numbers as well as your 
place of residence in case of an emergency. 

Transportation to the UTech Campus: The Uni
versity provides transportation from the Nor
man Manley International Airport to the UTech, 
Ja. campus, providing that you communicate 
your travel itinerary to the ISO at least two (2) 
weeks before arrival.  Alternatively, we rec
ommend that you take JUTA taxis only from the 
airport to the campus.  The cost from the Nor
man Manley International Airport to the UTech, 
Ja.  campus or its immediate environs is 
approximately US$60.00.  This may be less if 
students travel in groups. 

Sponsored Students: Sponsored students must 
submit a Letter of Commitment from their 
sponsor to the ISO to show proof of sponsor
ship. You will not be able to register as a spon
sored student unless the International 
Students’ Coordinator has cleared you.  You 
may also email the Letter of Commitment to 
the ISO at  jsinclair@utech.edu.jm. Where 
applicable, spon-sored students should ensure 
that they have enough funds to cover settling 
in costs and liv-ing expenses for at least one 
month until their funding is received. 

On Campus Accommodation: Upon arrival, the 
Accommodations Office will assist and direct 
you to your Hall of Residence. Prospective stu
dents desiring housing on-campus must com
plete a “Boarding Application Form”, which can 
be accessed via our website at 
http://www.utech.edu.jm.  The application 
period for summer and year-long students is 
October 1 to January 31. For further infor
mation on on-campus housing please visit the 
Accommodations Office’s webpage at 
http://www.utechjamaica.edu.jm/accom/. The 
Office also provides assistance with off-campus 
accommodation. 

Orientation: Students entering the University 
for the first time are required to participate in a 
week-long orientation programme. The pro
gramme introduces students to the University’s 
history, traditions, educational programmes,
co-curricular programmes and academic 
requirements to ensure successful completion 
of their programme.  

Medical Requirements: All full-time students 
entering the University for the first time must 
submit a medical certificate. The completed 
form should be submitted to the Medical Cen
tre.  The form can be downloaded at 
www.utechjamaica.edu.jm. Please note that the 
medical can be done in your home country or 
at the Medical Centre on campus. 

The Community Service Programme (CSP): 
The Community Service Programme (CSP 1001) 
is a mandatory forty-five (45) hour, one-credit 
module which comprises five (5) contact hours 
in the classroom and forty (40) community 
service hours out in the field.  These forty (40) 
contact hours must be completed at an 
approved agency agreed on by the Community 
Service Department at the University of Tech
nology, Jamaica (UTech, Ja). Students are given 
two (2) consecutive academic years to com
plete their CSP projects, but are strongly urged 
to complete this module within the first two 
academic years.  For further information, please 
visit http://www.utech.edu.jm/services/com
munityservices/index.html 

Changes in Name, Address or Marital Status: If 
your address has changed, it is your duty to 
update your details on the Integrated Student 
Administration System (ISAS).  Documentary 
proof is required for changes in name or marital 
status.  This should be submitted to the Student 
Records Office and the necessary forms  
completed. 


The following are the extended opening hours for the various units:

 Unit: Assistant Registrar, Student Services
  Day: Monday–Friday
  Time: 8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.

 Unit: Accommodation
  Day: Monday–Friday
  Time: 8:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.

 Unit: International Students Office
  Day: Monday–Friday
  Time: 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.

 Unit: Career and Placement
  Day: Monday–Friday
  Time: 8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.

 Unit: Counselling Unit
  Day: Monday–Friday
  Time: 8:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.

 Unit: Lobby (Administration Building)
  Day: Monday–Friday
  Time: 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m.

