T H E   U N I V E R S I T Y   O F   T E C H N O L O G Y ,   J A M A I C A   –   S T U D E N T   H A N D B O O K   2 0 2 2– 2 0 2 3

I N T R O D U C T I O N   T O   T H E   U N I V E R S I T Y

H I S T O R Y  

The University of Technology, Jamaica (UTech, 

Ja.) dates its beginning from 1958, originally as 

the Jamaica Institute of Technology.  In 1959 

the name of the institution was changed to the 

College of Arts, Science and Technology and  

became incorporated in the College of Arts,  

Science and Technology (CAST) Scheme of 

1959. This was validated by an ACT of Parlia-

ment in 1964.  In 1986, the CAST Scheme was 

revised in order to make the College a degree-

granting institution, and the College became 

legally empowered to conduct affairs under a 

governing Council and Academic Board. 

The institution was formally accorded Univer-

sity status on September 1, 1995 as the Univer-

sity of Technology, Jamaica. The University of 

Technology, Jamaica Act 27-1999, which makes 

permanent provisions for the establishment of 

the University of Technology, Jamaica was 

approved by Parliament on June 8, 1999 and 

signed into law by the Governor General on 

June 19, 1999. 

The history of the institution is intimately con-

nected with the social and economic devel-

opment of Jamaica.  From just over 50 students 

and four programmes in 1958, UTech, Jamaica 

has grown to become Jamaica’s premier 

national institution with a student population 

of over 13,000.  The University  now offers 100 

programmes at the certificate, diploma and 

degree levels through its three colleges and five 

faculties. The University has further expanded 

access to its programme offerings to meet the 

demands of business and industry by establish-

ing campuses and satellite locations across  

Jamaica. In addition, several programmes are 

franchised through links with community  

colleges, and most programmes are linked to 

national and international professional  

organisations.   

Syllabuses are modeled on the English poly-

technic system, with emphasis on flexibility of 

approach, work-based, experiential learning 

and professional linkages afforded through  

co-operative work based programmes. Flexibil-

ity in the University’s academic programmes is 

reflected in the various modes of course deliv-

ery, which include the establishment of a 

semesterised mode of delivery introduced in 

academic year 1999/2000 and further adjusted 

and piloted in 2009–2010.   

The University’s mandate is reflected in its  

mission –” to positively impact Jamaica and the 

wider Caribbean through high quality learning 

opportunities, research and value-added  

occupies approximately 18.2 hectares. It lies to 

solutions to government, industry and com-

the east of the Hope Botanical Gardens in close 

munities”.  As such, the University’s three core 

proximity to the Papine / Liguanea commercial 

pillars are teaching, research and service. 

centres. The campus is served by several bus 

“ T H E   P E O P L E ’ S   U N I V E R S I T Y ”  

The University prides itself on fulfilling its 

objective as “The People’s University”, dedicated 

to facilitating access to opportunities for learn-

ing and to meeting the growth and devel-

opment needs of Jamaica. In addition to 

academic pursuits, our students have a rich and 

unique opportunity to participate in com-

munity service, sports, arts and culture which 

are deliberately blended into the curriculum to 

produce well-rounded graduates who benefit 

from a holistic UTech, Ja. learning experience. 

The institution’s academic progress, its bur-

geoning research and service initiatives,  

growing prowess in sports interwoven with the 

integration of arts and culture, signal a con-

tinued bright future for the University of Tech-

nology, Jamaica as the Caribbean region’s 

vanguard of higher learning and excellence. 

C A M P U S E S  

P A P I N E   C A M P U S  

routes and is within walking distance from the 

Mona Campus of the regional University of the 

West Indies and the University Hospital. 

S L I P E   P E N   R O A D   C A M P U S  

The School of Public Health and Health  

Technology is located at 21 Slipe Pen Road, 

Kingston 5, which is in close proximity to the 

Kingston Public Hospital. 

The B.Sc. degrees in Environmental Health and 

Public Health Nursing, Occupational Health  

and Safety, Master of Public Health and Post 

Diploma in Meats and Other Foods are offered 

at this facility. 

A R T H U R   W I N T   D R I V E   C A M P U S  

The College of Oral Health Sciences in the Joint 

Colleges of Medicine, Oral Health and Veterinary 

Sciences is located at Arthur Wint Drive, immedi-

ately adjoining the Bustamante Hospital for  

Children.  In addition to regular classrooms, the 

campus houses a modern clinical facility that 

serves as a training ground for the students. 

U T E C H ,   J A .   W E S T E R N   C A M P U S  

The main campus of the University – Papine  is 

located within the Greater Kingston Metropol-

itan Region in the parish of St. Andrew and 

The Western Campus is located across the north 
western region of Jamaica in the parish of  St. 
James.  The teaching units are located in the 
city of Montego Bay, St. James. The Caribbean 
School of Nursing (CSON) is located at Barnett 
Clinic, 2 Cottage Close in Montego Bay. CSON 
programmes are the BSc Nursing, BSc Midwif
ery, Post Basic Midwifery, BSc completion for 
RN, Master in Health Administration.  The Dome 
Street building at 17 Dome St. is the home for 
programmes of studies from the Faculty of Law 
(LLB), and the College of Business and Manage
ment (BBA); Faculty of Sports and Science offers 
a BSc in Mathematics and Education and also 
provides the general education modules in 
mathematics.  The Faculty of Education and 
Liberal Studies currently provides service for 
the humanities and will soon offer the BCAT 
programme in the West. The Students’ Union 
Western Office is located at the Dome St. build
ing. UTech, Ja. delivers the ASc Degree in Busi
ness Administration from the Dome Street 
Campus under the supervision of the UTech 
Academy.  

SCHOOL OF ADVANCED MANAGEMENT 
School of Advanced Management, Postgradu
ate Division, a School within the College of 
Business and Management is located at 237 Old 
Hope Road, Kingston 6.  The School primarily 
offers graduate and postgraduate, professional 
and certificate courses.  The graduate courses 
offered are the Master in Business Administra
tion (MBA), Master of Science in Finance (MSF), 
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) and 
the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Business 
Administration.  
For further information relating to course offer
ings kindly contact the The School of Advanced 
Management:  876-970-5522 and 876-970-5551 
or 876-927-1680 ext 2522 or 2551. They can 
also be contacted via email: cobamgrad@utech. 
edu.jm. 

FRANCHISE AND OUTREACH INSTITUTIONS 
The University has collaborative agreements 
with five local community colleges, namely, 
Brown’s Town, Excelsior, Knox, Montego Bay 
and Portmore as well as Church Teachers’  
College, the College of the Bahamas, and St.  
Vincent & the Grenadines Community College. 
Under this arrangement, the first and/or second 
years of diploma and/or undergraduate degree 
courses in the College of Business & Manage
ment and the Faculty of Engineering & Comput
ing may be pursued at these institutions. All 
four years of the Bachelor of Pharmacy are 
offered at the College of the Bahamas. The 
Caribbean School of Nursing facilitates the 
delivery of the Post RN Bachelor of Science in 
Nursing in St. Vincent & the Grenadines and at 
Excelsior Community College.

Governance

The University was established by Parliament 
with the enactment  of the University of 
Technology, Jamaica Act No. 27 of 1999.  The 
Act is divided into two sections: 
1.  The Charter  – also called the First Schedule
2.  The Statutes – also called the Second
 Schedule


The Act outlines the objects and functions of 
the University, ministerial policy directions, 
general provisions for staff, financial provisions, 
accounts and reports. The institution operates 
under a bicameral system of governance  
comprising a governing body, the University 
Council, and the supreme academic arm, the 
Academic Board. Each body is supported by 
standing committees through which much of 
its work is expedited.  
The University is headed by the Chancellor  
who presides over the convocation and is  
supported by a Pro-Chancellor who is second in 
command.  
The President of the University is the chief aca
demic and administrative officer of the Univer
sity and presides over the meetings of the 
Academic Board. The President is supported by 
a Deputy President, Vice Presidents and other 
senior officers. 


The Council is the ultimate authority on matters of governance. However, the nature of the bicameral system requires much consultation between Council and the Academic Board.

The documents of university governance are:

1. The University of Technology, Jamaica Act, No 27 of 1999, which contains the Charter and the Statutes
2. Ordinances – Rules made by the Council
3. Regulations – Rules as defined by the Academic Board
4. Policies – Administrative and Academic guidelines and procedures
5. Decisions of Council and Academic Board.

The University as a public body is also subject to other legislations such as:

1. The Contractor General’s Act
2. Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act
3. Government Procurement Rules.

UNIVERSITY COUNCIL
The Constitution of the Council is outlined in Statute XII of the University of Technology, Jamaica Act No. 27 of 1999. Members are normally appointed on a three-year basis by 
the Cabinet on the recommendation of the respective nominating bodies. The Council is chaired by the Pro-Chancellor. 

The Academic Board
The Academic Board that was established under Article 12 of the Charter is chaired by the President and is the principal body responsible for the academic governance within the University.
The Board is subject to the powers of the President and Council and has the responsibility for the academic affairs of the University, both in teaching and in research, and for the regulation and superintendence of the education of the students of the University as prescribed in the Statutes.

Academic Affairs Division
The Academic Affairs Division is responsible for the development, coordination and implementation of curricula, instruction and academic policy within the University. This division is comprised of three Colleges, five Faculties, and seven Academic Management Support units, each under the administrative Office of the Deputy President, all committed to carrying out the academic mission of the University.

Headed by the Deputy President, the division executes the academic programme of the University, and provides direction and oversight for the governance, development and delivery of academic programmes and policies. The division coordinates the Academic Affairs Leadership Group; and the Boards of Graduate and Undergraduate Studies, entities responsible for academic quality and delivery.

Colleges and Faculties
Academic Organisation
Colleges and Faculties are headed by Deans who are responsible for administration and academic affairs and report to the Deputy President and the Academic Board. The academic sub-divisions within each entity include Schools, Departments and Divisions. The faculties/colleges are as follows:-

College of Business & Management
The College of Business and Management comprises the following Schools:

* The School of Business Administration
* The School of Hospitality and Tourism Management
* The School of Advanced Management
* The Joan Duncan School of Entrepreneurship, Ethics and Leadership, which includes the Technology Innovation Centre (TIC).

See page 71 for information on the TIC.

The policy of the College is to create and maintain close strategic alliance with corporate Jamaica and other similar entities within the region, thereby helping to ensure the continued relevance of its programmes.



College of Health Sciences
The College of Health Sciences (COHS) offers an impressive array of online/blended graduate, undergraduate and certificate programmes critical for health related professions. Courses of study include Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Technology, Pharmacy Technician, Nursing, Midwifery, Critical Care Nursing, Dietetics and Nutrition, Medical Technology, Child & Adolescent Development and Health Information Technology in local, regional and global markets. The College is also committed to impactful research activities that will address and provide solutions to health care problems locally, regionally and internationally. The College delivers the Schools, namely, the School of Pharmacy (SOP), School of Allied Health and Wellness (SAHW) and the Caribbean School of Nursing (CSON) are located on the main Papine campus with satellite campuses for undergraduate courses of study for the CSON in Montego Bay, Barnett Clinic), and Franchise in Brown’s Town, St. Ann (Sigma). The satellite campus at Sigma Mare (Graduate Studies) manages the following Post-Baccalaureate Doctor of Pharmacy, MSc in Health Administration, MSc in Public Health Nutrition, MSc in Nurse Anaesthesia, MSc in Trauma Studies and Integrated Counselling. The College of Health Sciences (COHS) offers options that not only facilitate student learning, but are convenient, accessible and affordable.

Faculty of Education & Liberal Studies
The Faculty of Education and Liberal Studies (FELS) comprises the School of Technical and Vocational Education (SOTAVE) and the School of Humanities and Social Sciences (SHSS).
Courses of study offered in the two Schools may be grouped under three broad areas: Technical Teacher Education and Training, the Creative industries, and the Humanities and Human and Social Sciences.

A. Technical Teacher Education
One of the oldest offering in technical teacher education programmes in Jamaica the Faculty teacher educations courses of Study prepare teachers in Business and Computer Studies; Industrial Technology (Construction, Electrical, and Mechanical), and Food Service & Production Management. The aim of these courses is to produce technical and vocational teachers who are equipped to function as teachers/trainers/administrators/middle managers in the technical and vocational training system at the secondary and post-secondary levels.

B. Creative Industries
These courses of study target one of the fastest growing industries in the world at this time and seek to provide skilled professionals to advance Jamaica’s position in that industry. The courses include:
Bachelor of Arts in Communication Arts and Technology (BA CAT) which was conceptualized in response to national market needs for training options in the media and communication industry. This four-year degree, which is arguably the most comprehensive undergraduate communication and media degree in Jamaica, offers students concentration in journalism, public relations, advertising or writing. This highly practical, problem-based course of study equips graduates with skills including website and digital design, photography, digital audio production, multimedia storytelling, video production, editing, and graphic design.

The four-year Bachelor of Arts in Apparel Design Production Management (ADPM) course of study prepares skilled and work ready fashion designers for the Jamaican market and beyond. The new exciting two year Associate of Arts Degree in Image Consultancy and Fashion Styling was designed to prepare graduates as fashion stylists, photographic stylists, image consultants, fashion buyers, makeup artists, theatre, film and TV Wardrobe Stylists.

The Associate of Science and Bachelor of Science Degrees in Entertainment Design and Production Technology are the newest courses of study offered by the Faculty. These two exciting new courses of study seek to provide training and professional certification to individuals interested in the design and production of entertainment events. Leveraging Jamaica’s advantage as a dynamic cultural space, the courses of study and the joint nature between the cultural and creative industries and technology education and training. Graduates are equipped with the technical skills necessary to provide services for live and recorded entertainment events, using both traditional and digital media with specialisations in Audio Design and Production, Lighting Design and Production, and Structural and Scenic Design and Production.

C. Language Teaching & Resource Centre (LTRC) and Social Sciences
The offerings of the one such unit support programmes offered across the university. This is accomplished through the provision of general education and elective modules which support the technical content of the various specializations. The modules offered are in the fields of academic literacies, psychology, social psychology, philosophy, sociology, ethics and foreign languages (Spanish, French, and Japanese).

Faculty of Engineering & Computing
The Faculty of Engineering and Computing (FENC) has been the premier tertiary level provider of education in engineering and computing in Jamaica for more than fifty years. The Faculty has graduated competently highly knowledgeable and skilled engineers and computing professionals to support national development and economic growth.

Unique to its programme offerings is the BSc. general degree in Chemical Engineering (English and Spanish) and the Enterprise Computing programme. These programmes are offered nowhere else in the English Speaking Caribbean.

All of the established programmes within the Faculty have been accredited locally by the University Council of Jamaica (UCJ). In addition, the Electrical and Mechanical Engineering programmes are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET).

The wide range of programme offerings include Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) in Agricultural, Chemical, Civil, Electrical, Industrial and Mechanical Engineering and Diplomas in Agricultural and Electrical Engineering. The School of Computing and Information Technology offers a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Computing with a major in Computer Science and Information Technology. The Faculty also offers a number of graduate programmes including the MPhil in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Computer Science and Information Systems. There are also taught masters programmes such as the MSc in Information Systems Management and the Post Graduate Diploma in Information and Communication Technology. The professional development of students is of major importance. Accordingly, the Faculty has established student chapters of international professional associations, such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineering (IEEE), American Computing Machinery (ACM), Association for Information Systems (AIS), American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Association of Chemical Engineers (ACHE) and more recently Jamaica Institute of Engineers (JIE). Students participate actively in international student competitions that test their knowledge and design capabilities, and they have received a number of awards in those events.


Faculty of Law
The Faculty of Law (FOLW) offers the Bachelor of Laws (LLB) Degree. Students have the opportunity to complete the programme over three years (full-time) or in four years (part-time). Taught by a cadre of local and international experts with interdisciplinary training and experience, the programme is delivered through lectures, tutorials, casebook methods, research, seminars and moots. An example of the Faculty’s innovative approach is the offering of modules, such as Entertainment Law, Sports Law, and Intellectual Property that support emerging dynamic growth sectors of the economy. In addition, the course of study provides learners with the opportunity to explore and develop an interest in the laws and legal systems of Jamaica and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). For those wanting to practise law, this programme provides a flexible route by which to complete the academic stage of the training needed for the progression to the vocational stage of legal education or related fields.

Faculty of Science and Sport
The Faculty of Science and Sport (FOSS) is committed to developing innovations in the STEM and sports arena to transform the society. It provides courses, research, and consultancy services that relate science and technology to education, industrial, business, security, health and sport sectors. The courses offered include undergraduate, graduate and continuing education courses. Additionally, the Faculty delivers science, mathematics, and sport elec-
tive modules for all courses of study across the University.
The Faculty comprises the School of Natural and Applied Sciences (SONAS), the School of Mathematics and Statistics (SOMAS), the Carib- bean School of Sport Sciences (CSOSS), the Centre for Science-based Research, Entrepre- neurship and Continuing Studies (CSRECS) and the Department of Sport (DOS).
FACULTY OF THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT
The Faculty of the Built Environment (FOBE) was established in 1998 under the new charter and statute of the University of Technology, Jamaica. However, its history goes back to 1958 when the Diploma in Construction Technology was offered in the Engineering Department of the then recently established College of Arts, Science & Technology (CAST). As demand increased for widening training opportunities in Construction Engineering and related dis- ciplines, the Faculty increased its offerings. The early Building Department was established in 1978 with six divisions delivering diploma and/or certificate programmes. In 1988 the Caribbean School of Architecture was insti- tuted. The Faculty now comprises two schools, namely, the Caribbean School of Architecture (CSA) and the School of Building and Land Management (SBLM). The CSA offers one Bachelor's Degree and one Master's Degree. The SBLM offers seven Bachelor's Degrees, two Diploma and one Associate Degree. The School also offers three Master's Degree and one MPhil/PhD programmes.
In addition, faculty members are actively
involved in research and consultancy relating to issues of the built environment. Programmes are recognized within the international arena by professional bodies such as UN Habitat, The World Bank, The Commonwealth Association of Architects (CAA) and Royal Institution of Char- tered Surveyors (RICS).
The Faculty seeks to fulfil its mandate by offer- ing world class programmes which are tailored to the needs of the industry. (For programme offerings, please visit our website www.utechja- maica.edu.jm)
JOINT COLLEGES OF MEDICINE, ORAL HEALTH AND VETERINARY SCIENCES
The establishment of the Joint College of Medi- cine, Oral Health and Veterinary Sciences was approved by the University Council in December 2011. The entity is comprised of three (3) Colleges:
-College of Medicine
-College of Oral Health Sciences
-College of Veterinary Sciences

The Colleges of Medicine and Veterinary Sciences are in the developmental stages and intend to start offering programmes shortly. Within the College of Medicine is the School of Public Health and Health Technology, located at 21 Slipe Pen Road, Kingston 5. The School of Public Health and Health Technology offers BSc programmes in Environmental Health, Public Health Nursing and Occupational Health and Safety as well as a Master of Public Health. The College of Oral Health Sciences offers BSc. programmes in Dental Laboratory Technology,  Dental Nursing Therapy and Dental Hygiene; Diploma in Dental Assisting (Expanded Function) and the Doctor of Medical Dentistry (DMD) 

The DMD programme is taught by a cadre of 
highly qualified and internationally re-known 
experts in their respective fields. Students are 
taught in modern clinical facilities using some 
of the most up-to-date equipment and are also 
exposed to many hours of field work by engag
ing in ongoing community projects throughout 
the island.

SCHOOL OF GRADUATE STUDIES RESEARCH 
AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
In April 2007 the School of Graduate Studies, 
Research and Entrepreneurship (SGSRE) was 
established to replace the Office of Research 
and Graduate Studies. The School of Graduate 
Studies, Research and Entrepreneurship leads 
and manages the development and delivery of 
graduate courses across the academic units of 
the University. Directed by the research man
date of the University, the School guides and 
supports university research activities, with a 
particular focus  on inter-disciplinary and 
applied research relevant to economic and 
social problems and needs. As an income-gen
erating centre of the University, the School 
guides and supports entrepreneurial activity, 
primarily through the delivery of consultancy 
services and research and development innova
tions. The School also provides guidance and 
supervision for the academic publications of 
the University in addition to administering the 
intellectual property rights (IPR) policy and 
operations of the University.  Enumerated 
below are the specific roles and functions of the 
SGSRE:  

1. Provides linkages among Graduate Studies, 
Research and Entrepreneurship

2. Develops and implements policies for the
 central registration of research and consul
tancy projects

3. Vigorously promotes industrial/profes
sional graduate research degrees at both 
masters and doctoral levels

4.Develops and monitors implementation of
 a formula for equitable allocation of
 returns from income generating research 
and consultancy ventures

5.Leads inter-disciplinarily for research and
 consultancy among Graduate Studies,
 Research and Entrepreneurship Units
 (GSREUs)

6.Organizes a system of mentorship and
 pastoral care for graduate students

7. Establishes a system for the protection of
 Intellectual Property

8.Benchmarks FGSREUs graduate studies,
 research and entrepreneurship activities.

COLLEGE/FACULTY STUDENT ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COMMITTEE (C/FSAAC) 

The College/Faculty Student Academic Affairs 
Committee is a committee of the College/ 
Faculty Boards. It has been delegated powers to 
make recommendations to the Faculty Boards
on matters relating to the academic affairs of 
students, collectively and/or individually. 
Among the student matters considered by the 
Committee are the following: 

• Deferral of registration
• Cancellation of registration
• Fee refunds
• Leave of absence
• Permanent withdrawal from programmes
• Re-admission 
• Re-instatement 
• Programme completion
• Deferral of examinations
• Inter-faculty transfers

The scope of its responsibilities, as indicated in 
the “Terms of Reference” of the FSAAC, is as  
follows: 
“The Committee shall consider requests from 
students submitted to the Dean of the Faculty 
copied to the Student Relations Officer. (See 
“Schedule of College/Faculty Meetings” on 
page 16). – Requests that are within policy shall be
 decided on by the Committee and the deci
sions forwarded to the Student Relations Office
 for dispatch.– Requests that are outside of policy shall be
 referred to the Faculty Board for a resolution or
 to the Board of Undergraduate Studies (BUS) or
 the Board of Graduate Studies, Research and
 Entrepreneurship (BGSRE), if not resolved by
 the Faculty Board.

 – On matters that require Academic Board’s
 review or approval, the Committee shall refer
 those matters to the BUS or BGSRE for submis
sion to the Academic Board Student Affairs
 Review Panel.– In discharging its duties, the Committee shall
 be guided by the appropriate University Pol
icies and Regulations, as well as the relevant
 Faculty Regulations.”


 UTECH OPEN
 SCHOOL OF LIFE LONG LEARNING AND 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 

UTechOpen: School of Lifelong Learning and 
Professional Development (formerly the UTech 
Academy) is the newest academic unit at the 
University of Technology, Jamaica. The school 
is the dedicated arm for pre-university, lifelong 
learning, and professional development 
programmes. These programmes are designed 
to prepare individuals for the future 
technology-driven, knowledge-based economy 
and are available at various locations across 
Jamaica, including our Papine Campus, 
Montego Bay, Ocho Rios, as well as online.
 Our mission is to expand access to higher 
education for a diverse range of learners.
 UTechOpen finds value within the structure of 
UTech Ja. as one of the University’s initiatives to 
widen access for persons who are accessing 
higher education.

The school is charged with carrying out the 
University’s mandate for flexible and open 
learning through continuing education and 
professional development and is the place for 
pre-university programmes, executive 
education, professional studies and cutting
edge technology skills in Jamaica and the wider 
Caribbean. 
The school is uniquely positioned as the 
conduit for introducing established faculty 
short courses, as well as offering several short 
courses that cater to the professional 
development needs of experienced 
professionals. By extension, the school intends 
to increase access to the programmes in the 
Faculties and Colleges, offering foundation 
courses for students who did not meet the 
university's matriculation requirements for 
admission. 
From its various sites and through innovative 
programme delivery, UTechOpen is committed 
to:
 • Coordinating the pre-university and
 lifelong learning and professional
 development programmes for the
 university.
 • Responding to the training and
 developmental needs of businesses and
 industries.
 • Responds to the relevant needs of people
 within the communities who might not
 have had access to university
 programmes;
 • Preparing eligible individuals to
 matriculate to the UTech Faculties
 through the provision of pre-university
 courses.
 • Guiding the programme articulation
 protocols for enrolment and advanced
 placement into existing UTech
 programmes;
 • Managing the preliminary courses and
 programme requirements for each
 Faculty.
 • Providing opportunities for personal and
 professional educational development
 through continuing education.
 • Collaborating with Faculties, institutions
 and organisations in the development
 and delivery of continuing education and
 community education programmes,
 research projects and consultancies.
 • Expanding the access to UTech
 educational services beyond the Papine
 campus into rural and wider communities.
 • Coordinating The UTech summer
 semester Continuing Education
 programmes.
 • Providing opportunities for personal and
 professional educational development
 through Continuing Education


 THE SCHOOL HAS FOUR UNITS: 

UTech Academy 
• Pre- university programmes
 • 6 –form STEM pathway programme
 • UTech, Ja. Entry Pathways (alternate
 degree entry pathways)

UTech Executive Education 
 • Corporate Training
 • Management and leadership short courses/certificates
 • Marketing and Sales
 • Strategy
 • Business Analytics

Professional Studies 
 • STEM short courses
 • Professional Short Courses
 • Badges and Certification (microcredentials)
 • Career Development
 • Entrepreneurship and Innovation

Tech Skills Programme will offer- Tech Short courses for Industrial Revolution 4.0/5.0
 • Cybersecurity
 • Data Science
 • Artificial Intelligence
 • Internet of Things (IoT)
 • Robotics
 • Computer Programming
 • Machine Learning
 • Drone Technology
 • Introduction to Graphic Design



A C A D E M I C   M A N A G E M E N T   S U P P O R T  
U N I T S  

The Academic Management Support units pro-
vide support to the Colleges and Faculties. They 
ensure that teaching, curricula, research and 
related requirements for academic support are 
met and are of the highest quality.  The offices 
are as follows: Office of Distance Learning 
(ODL); Office of Quality Assurance (OQA); Office 
of Teaching and Learning (OTL); School of Grad-
uate Studies Research and Entrepreneurship 
(SGSRE); Western Campus; The Calvin McKain 
Library; Caribbean Sustainable Energy and 
Innovation Institute (CSEII); and the UTech 
Academy. 

O F F I C E   O F   D I S T A N C E   L E A R N I N G   ( O D L )  

The Office of Distance Learning (ODL) is respon-
sible for the coordination of distance learning 
in the University.  Its mandate is to increase  
flexible access and options to the University’s 
programmes for diverse students through a 
blend of modes and technologies, including 
the UTechOnline Learning Management System 
(LMS), video lectures, web-streaming and 
video-conferencing tools. The ODL provides 
support to staff through orientation, training, 
coaching and technical assistance in  
designing and adapting modules for the  
online environment.  

Other support activities include helpdesk serv-
ices for students; developing and proctoring 
online quizzes/exams; and monitoring the Turn-
itin plagiarism application. Of note, is that the 

ODL designs online modules with accessibility 
features for all students, regardless of disability, 
which includes an Accessibility Toolbar  and 
Sign Language.   

O F F I C E   O F   Q U A L I T Y   A S S U R A N C E   ( O Q A )  

The Office of Quality Assurance (OQA) provides 
academic guidance related to quality assurance 
to 19 schools operating within three colleges 
and five faculties.  

The principal role and function of the OQA is  
to guide and support the continuing devel-
opment, implementation and monitoring of 
UTech Jamaica’s Quality Management System. 
Key features of this system include policy devel-
opment and review, conducting academic qual-
ity audits to assure compliance to policies, 
guidelines and procedures of the University; 
evaluation of courses, modules and lecturers, 
leadership in academic advisement, accredita-
tion (institutional, professional and pro-
gramme) and facilitating workshops for quality 
enhancement. The office has a staff comple-
ment of an Associate Vice President (AVP) Qual-
ity Assurance, four technical officers and two 
administrative support staff. The operating 
units of the OQA are quality assurance, accredi-
tation, internal academic quality audit, aca-
demic advisement and evaluation.   

O F F I C E   O F   T E A C H I N G   A N D   L E A R N I N G  
( O T L ) 

The Office of Teaching and Learning provides 
oversight of core academic functions through out 
the University pertaining to Prior Learning, 
Curriculum, and Co-operative Education.  

Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) recognizes the 
learning and knowledge that prospective stu-
dents have obtained from work and life experi-
ence. The PLA Unit facilitates admission for 
applicants without the traditional matriculation 
requirements, and aids accelerated completion 
of undergraduate degrees through module 
exemptions. The Curriculum Unit reviews and 
monitors courses of study in the University, pro-
vides technical assistance in curriculum design 
and development, and facilitates training for 
academic staff in teaching and assessment. The 
Co-operative Education Unit facilitates struc-
tured integration of classroom learning with  
relevant on-the-job work experiences ensuring 
that our students gain practical and profes-
sional exposure in real work settings.  

T H E   S C H O O L   O F   G R A D U AT E   S T U D I E S ,  
R E S E A R C H   A N D   E N T R E P R E N E U R S H I P   ( S G S R E ) 

The School of Graduate Studies, Research and 
Entrepreneurship leads and manages the devel-
opment and delivery of graduate courses 
across the academic units of the University. 
Directed by the research mandate of the Uni-
versity, the School guides and supports Univer-
sity research activities, with a particular focus 
on inter-disciplinary and applied research rel-
evant to economic and social problems and 
needs. As an income-generating centre of the 
University, the School guides and supports 
entrepreneurial activity, primarily through the 
delivery of consultancy services and research 
and  development innovations. The School  
provides guidance and supervision for the  
academic publications of the University, and 
administers the intellectual property rights (IPR) 
policy and operations of the University.  

T H E   W E S T E R N   C A M P U S  

UTech, Jamaica Western Campus is strategically 
positioned to contribute to the economic 
development of Western Jamaica. From its two 
locations in Montego Bay, i.e. Dome Street and 
Cottage Close, students from the parishes of 
Hanover, St Elizabeth, St James, Trelawny and 
Westmoreland are competently provided with 
optimum service, preparing them to work in  
Engineering, Construction, Agriculture, Infor-
mation Technology and Service–Oriented  
businesses, and also in the Business Process 
Outsourcing and Tourism, especially as the 
campus is in close proximity  to the Free-zone 
which employs thousands of workers in  the 
Information and Communication Technology 
industry. The Campus offers a wide range of 
programmes from the Certificate, Associate, 
Bachelor and Masters levels as well as profes-
sional and franchise programmes in collabo-
ration with the Montego Bay Community 
College.  

The graduates from the UTech, Jamaica Western 
Campus are highly sought after for employ-
ment in the Financial, BPO, Health and Tourism 
sectors. 


T H E   C A L V I N   M C K A I N   L I B R A R Y  

The University Library, called the Calvin McKain 
Library, offers a wide range of information 
resources and services to students and faculty 
in support of teaching, learning and research.  
The information is presented in print and elec-
tronic formats.  Detailed information about the 
collections, the online catalogue, location of 
materials, borrowing privileges, other services 
provided, opening hours, rules and regulations 
is provided on the website: http://library.utech. 
edu.jm/client/en_GB/default. 

All students, including those at off-campus 
locations, have borrowing and/or reading  
privileges. 

Library information literacy sessions are held 
throughout each semester to enhance clients’ 
information seeking skills and familiarize them 
with library resources and services.  For further 
information contact: 876-970-5258 or visit our 
facebook page at: 
http://www.facebook.com/calvinmckainlibrary.  

T H E   C A R I B B E A N   S U S T A I N A B L E   E N E R G Y   A N D  
I N N O V A T I O N   I N S T I T U T E   ( C S E I I ) 

The Caribbean Sustainable Energy and Innova-
tion Institute (CSEII) was established under 
Ordinance 1999/5 for the Establishment and 
Review of Other Bodies by unanimous decision 
of the University’s Council in June 2013.   

The Institute is dedicated to propelling sustain-
able energy and environmental management 
through its transformative academic pro-
grammes; research; consultancies and special 
projects; public outreach and its local and inter-
national partners.  It is a distinctive place for  
innovation, entrepreneurship and community 
action in the Sustainable Energy/ Climate 
Change nexus. Its flagship MSc. Degree in Sus-
tainable Energy and Climate Change offered 
under the Faculty of the Built Environment 
offers cutting edge training which is one of a 
kind in the Caribbean Region.  
