mission_and_vision.txt

THE MISSION  AND  VISION OF THE UNIVERSITY

MISSION:  “To positively impact Jamaica and the wider Caribbean through high quality learning 
opportunities, research and value-added solutions to government, industry and communities”. 

VISION:  “We are the #1 University in the Caribbean for work-ready leaders, committed to trans-
forming students and society through high quality teaching, research and value-added services”.

THE EMBLEM AND ITS USE

In creating the Emblem or Arms, the University sought to reflect its values and focus while 
maintaining a link with the College of Arts, Science and Technology (CAST). The compo-
nents, which are generally stylised, are interpreted below: 

The Doctor Bird (feeding on the hibiscus – a source of sustenance) and pineapples (part 
of the Jamaica Coat of Arms) symbolize the uniqueness of the institution as the foremost 
national university. The Lignum vitae, a native Jamaican flower, is abundant on the Liguanea 
Plains on which the University is located and symbolizes productivity and the capacity to 
withstand adversity. 

The sun symbolizes life, light and energy; the mountains – strength, majesty and beauty; the open book on its 
sides, which follows the contours of the mountains, the generation, accessibility and transfer of knowledge; and 
the pair of dividers, also a component of the CAST logo – technology and the continuity between CAST and UTech, 
Ja. 

The use of the Emblem is guided by the provisions of the Use of Emblem and Graphic Standards Policy which 
include the following:    

• The  emblem  should  be  used  only  on  official  university  documents.  These  include  letterheads,
faculty brochures and other university stationery. 

• The emblem should be placed at the top left-hand corner of documents or top centre of degree parchments 
and  certificates  issued  by  the  University  alone,  or  the  University  in  collaboration  with  other  academic
institutions. 

• No writing should appear above the emblem or to the left of it.

• The original colours (the University colours) should be represented exactly. 

• The emblem should not be encircled by lines or decorations. 

Permission to use the emblem must be sought from the Governance Committee through the Registrar. The process
which normally takes two weeks is managed by the University Secretariat. Forms are available on the Intranet.

The University’s motto, “Magna per artem gesta” is engraved on the emblem. This Latin phase translates to “Excel-
lence through Knowledge”. The University’s motto, “Magna per artem gesta” is engraved on the emblem. This Latin 
phase translates to “Excellence through Knowledge”. 