President_message.txt 

P R E S I D E N T  ’ S   M E S S A G E

DR. KEVIN BROWN

It is my pleasure to welcome new and returning students for the 

2024/2025 Academic Year. Welcome to this exciting new chapter 

at Jamaica’s national and premier STEM (Science, Technology, 
Engineering & Mathematics) University.

Over our 66-year history, UTech, Jamaica has been pivotal in 
shaping technology and innovation in alignment with our national 
development agenda. By choosing UTech, Jamaica for your tertiary 
education, you have embarked on a transformative educational 
journey that promises lifelong growth and development. As new 
students, you join a tradition of "Excellence through Knowledge" in 
a supportive, stimulating, and diverse academic environment filled 
with enriching opportunities.

The Mission of our University is “to positively impact Jamaica, the wider Caribbean and elsewhere, 
through high quality learning opportunities for students, and value added solutions to 
government, industry and communities.”  We are dedicated to this pursuit, and I invite our students to 
actively participate in this Mission, throughout your university sojourn. 

Recognized for our commitment to international education standards, UTech, Jamaica received 
Institutional Accreditation from the University Council of Jamaica (UCJ) in 2018.

We take pride in our track record of producing over 65,000 industry-ready graduates, equipped not only 
with technical competence but also with the ability to drive social and economic transformation.  In the 
emerging digital era defined by Artificial Intelligence (AI), automation, and robotics, your journey at 
UTech, Jamaica begins at a pivotal moment in history, where our academic programmes continue to 
evolve in step with these transformations.

As you embark on your transformative education experience at UTech, Jamaica, your journey will not only 
provide you with the dream of earning a degree in your chosen field but will also shape your future.  I 
encourage you to embrace every opportunity to dream big, to be curious, creative and to think 
differently.  This is your chance to both learn and to innovate meaningful solutions to impact the world 
around you. 

We look forward to you successfully completing your studies and joining the ranks of graduates 
who are contributing to local and global development. 

As you diligently pursue your academic goals, I urge you to uphold UTech, Jamaica’s Core Values 
of Respect, Accountability, Integrity, Service, Excellence, Innovation and Team Spirit.  

I also encourage you to explore all that the university has to offer by participating in various 
aspects of university life that align with your interests, including student leadership, myriad 
competitions, clubs and societies, sports and cultural activities, as well as volunteer and 
community service initiatives – all of which will contribute to your personal development and 
enrich your experience.  

I extend my best wishes to all new and returning students for a successful, enjoyable, and 
rewarding academic year.  

Dr. Kevin Brown 

President 