registration_and_enrolment.txt


REGISTERED STUDENT - DEFINITION 
A student will be considered "registered" when he or she has: 
1. accepted the offer of admission and paid the commitment fee by the stipulated date
2. paid all fees and charges prescribed by the University by the stipulated date
3. agreed to the terms and conditions governing the University.

ENROLMENT 
Enrolment is the process by which a student selects and confirms modules and/or class times specific to his or her course of study, in conjunction with his or her academic advisor. Upon completion of selection and confirmation of modules, students are required to pay their fees, receive financial clearance, agree with terms and conditions and collect their identification cards. 

ENROLMENT PERIODS 
All students, including those needing to repeat modules during the academic year, are required to enroll online with the University. (Please see "Academic Calendar Year" for enrolment periods on page 14). 

DEFERRALS 
Applicants offered admission to the University may request a deferral of their registration for a period of one year. 
Requests for deferral should be done in writing to the Assistant Registrar, Admission and Enrolment  and copied to the Head of School/ Department before the beginning of the instructional period in which the course of study would normally commence. 
Applicants who have been granted deferrals will be guaranteed places for the next academic year, in the course of study for which the original offer was made, only if there are no changes to the matriculation requirements. A new application will be required if there have been changes to the matriculation requirements.  
Two months prior to the expiry of the deferral period, applicants will be contacted in writing by the Assistant Registrar, Admission and  Enrolment to determine their intention to take up the offer so that appropriate preparations can be made. 

Note: Applicants who are granted deferrals must complete the "Application for Readmission" form. 

COURSE WITHDRAWAL 
Enrolled students who are unable to continue their studies must notify the Registrar in writing, copied to their Head of School/Department and the Enrolment Officer. Refunds will be made in accordance with the Refund Payment Schedule, see page 94. 
ONLINE ADD /DROP 
An electronic Add/Drop form may be accessed via the internet only by registered students who wish to add or drop modules from their diet. Programme directors, lecturers, academic advisors or any other designated person will be able to support or deny the students' requests electronically. Registered students only, may obtain a password to access the online Add/Drop from the School of Computing and Information Technology (SCIT).  The Add/Drop facility may be accessed on the home page of the University's website-as one of the links at the top of the page.  Otherwise go directly to https://www.utech.edu.jm/AddDrop/. 
Use the link below to view the instructional video on the Add/Drop Procedure. Click the help link on the top right hand to start the tutorial on making the request. http://www.utechjamaica.edu.jm/adddrop/  
(See Add/Drop policy, page 220) 

ENROLMENT PROCEDURES FOR GRADUATE STUDIES STUDENTS 
1. Visit the University's website at www.utechjamaica.edu.jm and click on "Student  e:Vision" link located under Quick Links.
2. Click on the link "Log-in to UTECH Portal here" and follow the instructions to log in.
3. Go to the "Flexible Payment Plan" section located below the INTRAY on the left of the page and view "Payment Plan Options."
4. Click on the link "Select Payment Plan." Follow the instructions to select your payment plan and view your fees (printing is optional).
5. Log out of the Student Portal
6. Make payment using one of the payment options: Must always quote students' name and identification number.

PAYMENT OPTIONS 
A.	PAYMENT AT NCB
•	UTech's Account Number:
371360247 (JA$ payments) OR 371060375 (US$ payments)

B. PAYMENTS BY E-BANKING (NCB customers only)
Payments in local currency may be made to the e-Banking facility. Go to www.jncb.com.

C. PAYMENTS BY WIRE TRANSFER
Transfer of funds should be made to National Commercial Bank (NCB), Matilda's Corner, Kingston 6, Jamaica, W. I. The following should be stated to the representative at the bank.  
• UTech's Account Number:
371360247 (JA$ payments) OR
371060375 (US$ payments)
• SWIFT CODE: JNCB JMKX
•  Fax bank confirmation of payment to Department of Student Financing at 876-970-2302.

Please pay attention to the following conditionalities:  
1. Wire transfers take an average of up to fifteen (15) working days or more.
2. Charges incurred during the transfer will be deducted from the original amount being sent.
3. Address of sender should meet international wire transfer standard. (Should be identifiable by satellite search).
D. PAYMENT AT PAYMASTER
E. BILL EXPRESS
F. ONLINE PAYMENT VIA UTECH JA.'S WEBSITE
(WWW.UTECHJAMAICA.EDU.JM)

1. Go to www.utechjamaica.edu.jm, select
"Online Services" under "Quick Link"
2. The following cards may be used Keycard, Visa and MasterCard
3. Upon payment a confirmation email will be sent to you indicating receipt of your payment.
Students are encouraged to retain all receipts for transactions done at the University and at our external payment agencies for future reference.


PAYMENT PROCEDURES
STUDENTS’ LOAN BUREAU (SLB) RECIPIENT
SLB recipients should ensure that they provide the Bureau with all the documentation required to ensure their loan is approved before closure of registration. 
SPONSORED STUDENT / SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENT
If you are a sponsored student/scholarship recipient you will need to go to the Financial Aid Office, located on the Papine Campus, with: 
• Letter of Commitment from your Sponsor indicating your name, UTech student ID number, amount of funds committed and expected date of payment.
• A copy of your fee breakdown, which is available from the Student Portal after you have selected your payment option.
FINANCIAL CLEARANCE
Students are given financial clearance based upon agreed payment of fees. Upon such payment, a message is sent two (2) clear working days after, to the in-tray of the Students' Portal. The message may be:
2.	 "You have not paid the requisite amount to be registered . . ."
If no message is received at the time, contact Student Financing at  fincustomersupport@utech.edu.jm. 


You cannot be registered unless the requisite fees have been paid. However, fee payment alone is not registration; all the other procedures and steps must be completed. 
On the Students' Portal - Click on the link "Click here to enroll" located under the "Action"  column in your in-tray and follow the instructions to complete your enrolment. 
Proceed to the medical centre to submit your medical form or to make arrangements for the medical to be completed by the UTech Practitioner.  Failure to complete your medical will bar you from being a beneficiary of the health scheme. 
Proceed to the Department of Safety and Security located on the ground floor of the main Administration building at the Papine campus to process your identification card.   
(N.B. At least one hour time span must be given after the completion of the online enrolment steps before proceeding to the ID Services Unit.) 
EXTENSIONS OF REGISTRATION FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS
• Extensions of registration may be granted by the College/Faculty Student Academic Affairs Committee as required and in exceptional circumstances.
• During the final  year of studentship , where it appears that the requirements are unlikely to be met by the maximum date, students MUST apply in writing, through their supervisor, for an extension to the College/Faculty Student Academic Affairs Committee for such extensions to be granted. 
• The application should detail the reasons for the extension being sought and may include the difficulties that might have been experienced, and why the candidate is unable to complete in the expected time. These difficulties should have been referred to in the student's progress reports over the period.
• The student and supervisor must provide the Committee with a realistic estimate of the time required to complete the course. The time period should be no longer than one calendar year.
• Extensions are not granted automatically. 
• Requests for extensions must be made in advance.
• Where an extension is granted the following steps must be taken:
o A Student Extension Request form must be signed by the student and lodged by the College/Faculty Student Academic Affairs Committee, through the Programme Coordinator or the student's supervisor. 
o Fees will be calculated for such students based on the extension period and applicable policies. 


