regulation_4_regulations_governing_examination_in_course_of_study.txt
REGULATION 4 – REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXAMINATION IN COURSES OF STUDY

APPOINTMENT OF COLLEGE / FACULTY BOARD OF EXAMINERS  
Subject to the final responsibility of the Academic Board, the examination for Courses of Study and the assessment of performance and determination of the academic progress of the students enrolled therein shall be undertaken by Faculty/College Board of Examiners.

1. For undergraduate Courses of Study, the Faculty/College Board of Examiners shall be the Faculty/College Board of Examiners. The Chairman of this Board shall be the Dean of the Faculty in which the Course of Study is located or, in his or her absence, the Vice-Dean. Otherwise, a member of the Academic Board shall be appointed by the Deputy President, Academic Affairs, acting on the authority of the Academic Board.  
2. Members of the Faculty/College Board of Examiners shall be the Head of the School or Department in which the Course of Study is located, the Programme Director(s), the Examination Officer, Faculty Administrator, the External examiner(s) and any such persons approved by the Academic Board.  
3. The duties of Faculty/College Board of Examiners shall be:  
   3.1 To receive provisional results and recommendations from the School/Internal Examination Panel.  
   3.2 To determine the results obtained by candidates and, where such results lead directly to a degree, diploma, certificate or other academic distinction, to forward to the Registrar, for transmission to the Academic Board and, where appropriate, to external bodies, lists of successful candidates, classified in accordance with the relevant course of study regulations, with recommendations for the award of degrees, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions.  
   3.3 To determine on behalf of the Academic Board the academic progress of students on the basis of their performance in examinations and other forms of assessment.  
   3.4 To ensure that the examination and assessment of candidates are conducted in accordance with regulations and procedures prescribed by the Academic Board.  
   3.5 To address such other matters as the Academic Board may refer to them from time to time.

EXTERNAL EXAMINERS

4. Introduction  
4.1 External examiners are essential to the academic well-being of the University. Their involvement ensures that the institution’s awards are comparable in standards to awards granted and conferred by other institutions of higher education. Their comments on assessment procedures, the standard, content and development of the course form a vital part of the process within the University for the monitoring of its courses.  
4.2 The External examiners also fulfil an essential role in ensuring that all assessments are in accordance with approved assessment regulations, justice is done to the individual student, and appropriate consideration is given to individual students’ extenuating circumstances.

5. Selection of External Examiners  
5.1 The University’s Regulation (and the regulations of external bodies, where appropriate) require external examiners to be involved with all examinations and other forms of assessment which contribute to the students’ final awards. External examiners must therefore be involved in assessments of pre-final stages of courses if there is a carry-forward mark to the final award.  
5.2 External examiners are drawn from a wide variety of institutional/professional contexts and traditions in order that individual courses of study have the benefit of wide ranging external scrutiny. Normally, there must not be:  
   5.2.1 Reciprocal external examining between courses in two institutions.  
   5.2.2 Replacement of an external examiner by an individual from the same institution.  
   5.2.3 An external examiner from an institution which has been the source of examiners in the recent past (normally four years).  
5.3 When making the nomination of an external examiner, the Head of School/Department (or equivalent), in consultation with other Heads of School/Department (if appropriate) will ensure that:  
   5.3.1 Where there is a team of external examiners for a course of study, there is an adequate balance including:  
      (a) examining experience,  
      (b) academic and professional practitioners, and  
      (c) members from different institutions of higher education.  
   5.3.2 The nominee has achieved academic and professional qualifications in an appropriate subject, and at a level appropriate for the course of study to be examined.  
   5.3.3 The nominee is of an appropriate academic and/or professional standing to maintain the comparability of academic standards in the context of higher education.  
   5.3.4 The nominee has sufficient recent experience of examining at the required level, preferably including experience as an external examiner or comparable related experience to indicate competence in assessing students in the subject area concerned.  
   5.3.5 The nominee will not have such other extensive examining commitments that they cannot properly discharge their duties in respect of this University.  
   5.3.6 The nominee will be impartial in judgement, and for the last five years the nominee normally must not have been:  
      (a) a member of staff, a student or a near relative of a member of staff in relation to the Course of Studies, or who had a relationship with any of the above;  
      (b) an examiner from any other institution of higher education which jointly delivers a Course of Study with this University.  
      (c) involved as an external examiner for the Course of Study when it was approved by another validating body;  
   In addition, the nominee must not be:  
      (d) personally associated with the sponsorship of students;  
      (e) required to assess colleagues who are recruited as students to the course of study;  
      (f) in a position to influence significantly the future employment of students on the Course of Study;  
      (g) likely to be involved with student placements or training in the examiner’s organisation.  
   5.3.7 An external examiner must immediately notify the University Registrar in writing of any material change of circumstances which would lead to a breach of the conditions of appointment outlined above.

APPOINTMENT OF EXTERNAL EXAMINERS

6. External examiners shall be appointed by the Academic Board after consideration of recommendations from the Faculty/College Board. The University Registrar will forward a letter of appointment to the external examiner with a copy to the relevant Dean, and Head of School/Department.  
7. Appointments of external examiners shall be for a period of not more than four years, in the first instance, but may be extended for a period of not more than two years for a new course of study in order to provide continuity between successive groups of external examiners. External examiners who have served for one appointment period in the same course of study should not be considered for re-nomination in the same course until at least four years have elapsed.  
8. Regulations for the award(s), Notes of Guidance, and information on fees and expenses will be forwarded at this stage to the external examiner by the University Registrar. In order to ensure that the new external examiner is fully aware of all matters which have been raised previously, he/she will also be provided with the annual reports of her/his predecessor for the previous two years.  
9. The Head of School/Department shall ensure that the external examiner:  
   9.1 Receives a copy of a definitive document, together with any other information relating to the academic nature of the Course of Study to be considered;  
   9.2 Is adequately briefed on the procedures and timetable for the assessment of students for that particular Course of Study. The briefing must include (where appropriate):  
      - date of the Faculty/College Board of Examiners’ meetings  
      - aims and objectives of the Course of Study  
      - syllabuses and teaching methods  
      - methods of assessment and marking  
      - regulations for the Course of Study  
   9.3 Is in agreement with how their responsibilities will be fulfilled, e.g., the sample of assessments that will be moderated and their involvement during the year.

10. External examiners shall undertake validation duties on behalf of the university. Validation is a process wherein external examiners scrutinize samples of students’ assessed work and grades to ensure that appropriate quality and standards are maintained within the specifications of the relevant course of study. The duties of external examiners shall include:  
10.1 Consultation with members of the School/Internal Examination Panel in relation to the approval and moderation of examination papers and other forms of assessment;  
10.2 Consideration of the standard of marking of papers and other forms of assessment and reporting to members of the School/Internal Examination Panel on such revisions of the markings as they consider necessary;  
10.3 Attendance with or without one or more members of the School/Internal Examination Panel at viva voce examinations and oral examinations which are held at the discretion of the external examiners;  
10.4 Confirmation, by joint signature with Chairman of Faculty/College Board of Examiners, of the pass and classified lists of candidates including recommendation for the award of degree, diploma, certificate and other academic distinctions;  
10.5 Submission to the President, as Chairman of the Academic Board, reports on the examinations and on any matter relating to the organisation, syllabus and structure of the Course of Study, with copies submitted to the Deputy President, Academic Affairs, and the Dean, as Chairman of the Faculty/College Board. Reports on examinations shall include:  
   10.5.1 The overall performance of students relative to peers in similar courses of study  
   10.5.2 The strengths and weaknesses of students  
10.6 Such other duties as the Academic Board may specify from time to time.


11. The Faculty/College Board of Examiners may adjust the marks of any student, taking into consideration the advice of the School/Internal examination panel, the external examiner and the overall performance of the student. Where there is disagreement within the Faculty/College Board of Examiners about results or classifications, the view of the external examiners shall prevail. 

12. Unresolved disagreement between external examiners shall be reported to the Academic Board.

13. External examiners shall be present at all meetings where the performance of candidates, (which contributes to the final award), is being considered.

14. In exceptional circumstances, the Deputy President, Academic Affairs, acting on the authority of the Academic Board, shall make arrangements for the external examination of a course of study during the absence of the external examiners. This may include the submission of written reports or the appointment of substitute examiners or both.

15. The Academic Board may prescribe that the external examiners shall be present for consideration of all stages of the examining of a Course of Study.


APPOINTMENT OF SCHOOL / INTERNAL EXAMINATION PANELS  
TECHNOLOGY 2024

16. Acting on the authority of the Academic Board, the Faculty/College Board shall appoint a School/Internal Examination Panel to verify the examination of a course of study. Verification is an internal quality process that determines whether the examination complies with specifications of the Course of Study. The Chairman of this Panel shall be the Head of the School or Department in which the Course of Study is located, or his or her nominee.

17. Members of the Panel shall be the Head of School/Department, Programme Director(s), Programme Leader(s), the Examination Officer, and any other persons approved by the Faculty/College Board.

18. The duties of the School/Internal Examination Panel shall be as follows:  
18.1 To ensure that the examination process has been carried out in accordance with University and Faculty/College regulations;  
18.2 To review a candidate’s module results in examination and other forms of assessments that have been submitted to the School/Department;  
18.3 To determine provisional marks, academic status and/or University award for each candidate in a Course of Study and submit the same to the External Examiners and/or the Faculty/College Board of Examiners;  
18.4 To ensure that each candidate’s examination and other forms of assessment are available to the external examiners and/or the Faculty/College Board of Examiners;  
18.5 To ensure that any other pertinent information that has had a bearing on the provisional recommendations is made available to the External Examiners and/or the Faculty/College Board of Examiners.

PUBLICATION OF RESULTS

19. The list of results obtained by candidates in each examination, and the decisions about the academic progress of candidates, shall be drawn up by the Faculty/College Board of Examiners. The Faculty/College Board of Examiners shall forward:  
19.1 to the Academic Board the pass and classified lists of candidates who have successfully completed the final examinations leading to a degree, diploma, certificate or other academic distinction of the University;  
19.2 to the appropriate institution or professional body results of candidates in examinations leading to an award of the body concerned.

20. Faculty/College Board of Examiners shall publish pass lists of candidates who have successfully completed the final examinations leading to a degree, diploma, certificate or other academic distinction of the University, and an academic progress list of other candidates, who are not at a stage in their course of study leading to a degree, diploma, certificate or other academic distinction of the University.

21. All candidates shall be provided with a written record of the decision, which the Faculty/College Board of Examiners has taken about their progress.

22. When a module that contributes to a final award has been examined after a semester, or any other period of the academic year, but before the external examiner(s) can be present on the Faculty/College Board of Examiners, then the School/Internal Examination Panel may publish the provisional results, on the condition that the notice clearly states that the results are provisional and are awaiting submission to the Faculty/College Board of Examiners for validation.

RETENTION OF EXAMINATION MATERIAL

23. Except where alternative arrangements have been approved by or on behalf of the Academic Board, all written examinations and other forms of assessment that were examined during a candidate’s course of study shall be retained for three years following the date on which the results were published.

24. Candidates shall not have access to examination scripts. Work on which cumulative and other forms of assessment have been used may be returned to the candidates on a written undertaking that it shall be given back, if required, at any time. Failure on the part of a candidate to return work as required will be sufficient reason for a Faculty/College Board of Examiners not to take the work into account in determining the results of the candidate. Students who do not submit module project requirements in accordance with the required deadlines will be deemed to have failed that part of the course.

REVIEW OF DECISIONS ON ACADEMIC PROGRESS

25. Students have the right to appeal the final grade assigned to a module.

25.1 A student who is dissatisfied with his/her examination result may submit a written request to the Academic Board, through the Head of School/Department in which the module was taught, within two weeks after the publication of the final grade. The request for review must be accompanied by any evidence which the student believes can justify a review.

25.2 The request for review must be accompanied by a receipt as evidence that the student has paid the examination review fee in accordance with current University rates. The fee will only be refunded if the grade is raised. The review process can take up to four weeks, and the student will be informed in writing of the result.

PRESENTATION OF EVIDENCE OF EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES

26. Save in exceptional circumstances:

26.1 Written medical evidence, or evidence of compassionate circumstances relevant to the performance of a candidate in a written examination must be presented to the Head of School not later than seven working days following the examination;

26.2 Written medical evidence, or evidence of compassionate circumstances relevant to the performance of a candidate in cumulative or other forms of assessment must be presented to the Head of School before the date on which the work was due to be submitted.

27. Evidence of ill-health must be authenticated by the candidate’s medical advisor. If the medical advisor is external to the University, the candidate must present the medical certificate to the University’s Medical Centre. The medical certificate should then be forwarded directly to the Head of School. Self-certification will not be accepted.

DISSERTATION / MAJOR PROJECT

28. Where the submission of a dissertation is required, two copies of each satisfactory dissertation shall be lodged with the Registrar and shall become the property of the University. A summary or abstract of the work not exceeding 300 words in length shall be bound in with each copy. One copy shall be deposited in the University Library.


Sure, let's break down this examination procedure into highly detailed, actionable data points suitable for an AI chatbot. We'll categorize the information to make it easily digestible and retrievable for various user queries.


Regulation 4: Examination Procedure - Detailed Explanation for AI Chatbot

This document outlines the comprehensive process for examinations, from course content to the final university award. It emphasizes moderation, multiple levels of review, and a clear appeals process.


I. Core Stages of the Examination Process

 1. Courses of Study (Initial Stage)
     Description: This represents the foundation of the examination process – the curriculum and learning objectives for which students will be assessed.


 2. Moderation of Questions
     Description: This critical stage ensures the quality, fairness, and appropriateness of examination questions. It involves a review by experts to confirm alignment with course content, clarity, and consistency in standards.
     Involvement: "External Examiner(s)" play a direct role here, providing an objective viewpoint and ensuring external benchmarks are met.

 3. Examinations (Execution Phase)
     Description: The actual administration of tests to students based on the moderated questions. This is where students demonstrate their knowledge and understanding.

 4. School/Internal Examination Panel
     Description: This panel, typically composed of faculty members within the relevant school or department, is responsible for the initial assessment and review of examination results. They ensure consistency and fairness within the school's marking.

 5. External Examiner(s) (Review of Results)
     Description: After the internal panel's review, external examiners independently assess the marking standards and overall results. Their role is to ensure academic standards are maintained and comparable to other institutions.
     Outputs: This stage is directly linked to the posting of "Provisional results posted" for Semester 1, indicating that initial findings are available for student viewing, though not yet final.

 6. Semester 1 & 2 Faculty/College Board of Examiners
     Description: This is a high-level body responsible for the final ratification of examination results for both semesters. They consider input from all previous stages (internal and external reviews) to make definitive decisions on student performance.
     Outputs: This stage directly leads to "Final results posted," meaning the official, unchangeable results are released to students.

 7. Registrar's Office
     Description: The central administrative hub for student records and academic processes. They receive and manage all final results, handle student inquiries, and process requests for review.
     Inputs: Receives final results from the "Semester 1 & 2 Faculty/College Board of Examiners."
     Outputs/Interactions:
         Processes "Requests for review" from students.
         Communicates with the "Academic Board."
         Determines "University Status" (e.g., progression, graduation eligibility).

 8. Academic Board
     Description: The supreme academic authority in the institution, responsible for overall academic policy, standards, and the ultimate conferral of degrees and awards.
     Inputs: Receives recommendations and information from the "Registrar's Office" and the "Academic Board Advisory Panel."
     Outputs: Grants the "University Award" (e.g., degree, diploma).

II. Parallel Processes & Supporting Entities

 Faculty/College Board (Supporting Role)
     Description: This board works in parallel with the main examination flow, providing oversight and guidance to the "Semester 1 & 2 Faculty/College Board of Examiners." It ensures that examination practices align with broader faculty/college policies.

 Academic Board Advisory Panel
     Description: This panel provides advice and recommendations to the "Academic Board," likely on matters related to academic standards, student performance, or specific cases that require higher-level review. It acts as an intermediary or consultative body.
     Input: Receives information/cases from the "Faculty/College Board" (indicated by the dashed arrow, implying a referral or advisory relationship).
     Output: Advises the "Academic Board."


III. Key Actions & Outcomes

 Provisional results posted (Semester 1)
     Description: Initial, unofficial results for Semester 1, released after review by External Examiner(s). Subject to change upon finalization.

 Final results posted
     Description: The official and definitive examination results, released after approval by the Faculty/College Board of Examiners. These are the grades that will appear on academic transcripts.

 Requests for review
     Description: The formal process by which students can appeal or request a re-evaluation of their examination results. These requests are submitted to the "Registrar's Office."

 University Status
     Description: The official academic standing of a student as determined by the "Registrar's Office" based on their examination results and overall academic performance (e.g., good standing, probation, eligibility for graduation).

 University Award
     Description: The formal conferral of a degree, diploma, or certificate by the "Academic Board" upon successful completion of a program of study and satisfaction of all examination requirements.

This detailed breakdown provides explicit descriptions, associated entities, and direct examples of how an AI chatbot could use this information to answer user queries effectively. Remember to tag these data points with relevant keywords for robust natural language processing.


