student_life.txt


DINING FACILITIES

Dining facilities for students and faculty are provided by Juici Patties, Burger King, Pages, and Lillian’s Restaurant – a training facility for Hospitality and Tourism Management students. Light snacks and drinks are also available from various shops located at the Student’s Activity Centre, John’s Tuck Shop, Shelleys, and Andrea’s.

SPORTS AND RECREATION

The Department of Sport is the “Home of World Class Athletes.” The vision is to have the best student athletics sports programme in the world.

The primary goal is to provide a sporting environment that enhances the development of quality, competitive, and recreational sporting activities which improve leadership skills, teamwork, confidence, discipline, and character building in graduates.

Facilities include:

• The Alfred Sangster Auditorium – 6,000 sq. ft. sprung timber stage, seating for 1,100 (including balcony), marked for basketball, netball, volleyball, badminton, table tennis, and martial arts.
• Adjoining facilities: weights room and squash court.
• Outdoor facilities: 
  – Golf putting area with sand trap and fairways (par 3–5)
  – Cricket pitch and pavilion
  – Half-Olympic size swimming pool
  – 310-meter grass running track
  – Football and rugby field with changing rooms
  – Netball, basketball, volleyball, and tennis courts (colorfully painted)

INTERCOLLEGIATE SPORTS

Twelve intercollegiate sports are offered for men and women:
• Both: basketball, volleyball, tennis, badminton, squash, hockey, football, table tennis, and track & field
• Men only: cricket, rugby
• Women only: netball

Track & Field is the flagship sport and has produced notable athletes such as:
Elaine Thompson, Sherone Simpson, Sherika Williams, Asafa Powell, Nesta Carter, Germaine Mason, and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce.

Students participate in:
• CUSA games
• ODUCC games
• Penn Relays
• League competitions

UTECH JA CLASSIC SERIES

The annual international “UTech Classic Series” includes:
Track & Field, cricket, volleyball, golf, basketball, netball, table tennis, and lawn tennis.

All sporting facilities are open to students and staff with valid UTech ID cards.

Director of Sport: Mr. Orville Byfield
Website: http://www.utech.edu.jm/Sports/default.htm

THE STUDENTS’ UNION

Student governance is vital at UTech. The Students’ Union Council manages the social, spiritual, and academic wellbeing of students, in its effort “To serve and to represent.”

Membership includes all registered students. The representational body includes:
• The Board of Executives: President + 5 members
• The Board of Representatives
• The Board of Directors
• Advisors
• The Students’ Union Western Sub-Council
• Graduate Students

MISSION, AIMS & OBJECTIVES (ARTICLE II*)

Section 1 – Mission:
To effectively serve and protect the rights of students, promoting their academic, social, cultural, spiritual, and physical development while fostering relations with the wider community.

Section 2 – Aims and Objectives:
As per Statute XVIII of the University of Technology Act No. 27/1999:

• Promote student interests and represent them in all matters affecting their welfare.
• Serve as a recognized channel of communication between students and University authorities.
• Provide services to enhance student life.
• Promote social interaction and unity among students.
• Foster relations with students of other universities and higher education institutions.



WELFARE AND SERVICES
The Students’ Union Council operates numerous activities geared towards benefiting our populace. These activities include representation, office services, welfare services, bursary assistance such as tuition, lunch, transportation and laundry.

1. “Love Lunch”
This is an expansion of the services that are offered by the Students’ Union whereby eligible students are provided with lunch tickets to purchase meals at selected food outlets.

2. Laundromat
The Laundromat is located in the Lomé Halls “Blocks” and operated by the office of Students’ Union Council. Tokens for washing and drying cost $300.00 per load (prices subject to change) and are sold at the Students’ Union Business Office only. Opening hours are 9am–4pm, Monday–Friday and 11am–6pm on weekends.

3. “Love Bus”
The Students’ Union shuttle service is dedicated to serving the commuting student community through accessible routes and schedules. This service is provided to students at a discounted rate and operates from Monday through Friday from 6am to 9pm. The shuttle service was paused due to the pandemic however the service is expected to be reinstated for the 2024/2025 academic year. More information on the operating routes and prices will be made via the Students’ Union social media pages. Please be advised that to access this service, you are required to present your UTech, Ja ID card upon boarding all identified student buses.

BUSINESS OFFICE SERVICES
The Students’ Union aims to accommodate students' demand for office services. These include:

• Document printing – offered to students at competitive prices.
• Photocopying – offered at different costs, according to paper type and colour.
• Facsimile services – offered to students at competitive prices.
• Binding
• Scanning documents

THE STUDENTS’ ACTIVITY CENTRE
The Students’ Activity Centre (SAC) is an area designated for social and recreational activities for students. This area is home to the Students’ Union Council Consultation Office and Conference room. Broadly speaking, the facility is devoted to student recreation and socialization.

COMMUNITY OUTREACH SERVICES
The Students’ Union provides an opportunity for the growth and development of the students we serve and also for those in our immediate/surrounding communities. This is done through organizing sustainable activities that will be impactful and beneficial for the betterment and development of participants. In an attempt to fulfil this desire to contribute, the Union plans and executes two major signature projects each year.

1. THE “TEACH THE YOUTH” PROGRAMME
This programme was developed in the summer of 1999 to carry out remedial and other educational work, directly benefiting two communities. The programme has since been expanded to five communities: Kintyre, August Town, Tavern, Highlight View and Sandy Park, and it is now mandated as an annual event. Despite being on a two-year hiatus as a result of the pandemic, the council is pushing to see the reintroduction of the flagship initiative in this academic year.

2. “NATIONWIDE TAG DRIVE”
Students traverse the country in an attempt to solicit funds to aid various charitable organizations and/or needy individuals. The “Tag Drive” consists of a week of activities in semester one each year. These include a church service, a “Celebrity Dutch Auction”, a collection in the Kingston Corporate Area and, on the final day, an island-wide collection. The Tag Drive is geared towards empowering students to gain levels of self-fulfilment from knowing that they are participating in an event that benefits the less fortunate in our society.

CLUBS AND SOCIETIES AND ASSOCIATIONS
There are several student-based associations at the University of Technology, Jamaica. These recognized clubs/societies fall under the auspices of the Students’ Union Council. Through recent amendments, the First Vice President, Clubs and Societies in association with the Director of Elections governs all proceedings of clubs and societies ranging from students’ activity clubs and professional societies to cultural, religious and special interest groups.

The clubs comprise students from various Colleges/Faculties/Schools and Programmes, while the societies are aligned to specific disciplines. They all offer students an opportunity for increased social interaction and the ability to gain invaluable experience while expanding their network of friends and associates. All students are encouraged to join at least one student-based organization in order to increase their social activism. The Students’ Union Council aims to manage the operation of the clubs and societies on campus, as well as to promote and generate funds. Clubs and Societies week celebrated in October showcases the various clubs and societies through expositions, forums and a concert.

The following is a list of recognized Clubs and Societies:
1. UTech, Journalism Society
2. UTech, Ja. Mathematics Club
3. University and Colleges Christian Fellowship – Western
4. Universities and Colleges Christian Fellowship
5. UTech West Circle K International Club
6. UTech Circle K International Club
7. Rotaract Club of UTech, Ja.
8. UTech Actuarial Science Club
9. UTech Advent Fellowship
10. Society of Manufacturing Engineers
11. Future Marketers Association
12. COBAM Honor Society
13. Accounting Students Association
14. University and College Apostolic Ministry UTech, Ja.
15. Jamaica Business and Economics Society of Tomorrow
16. Jamaica Institute of Engineers – UTech, Ja. Chapter
17. Institution of Structural Engineers
18. UTech, Ja. Association of Nutrition and Dietetics Students
19. Caribbean Architectural Students Association
20. Cursor Tech Club
21. Forensic Science Society of Jamaica
22. UTech, Ja. Debating and Public Speaking Society
23. UTech, Ja. Association of Medical Technology Students
24. UTech Paladins ESports Club
25. Generation Technology, UTech, Ja Chapter
26. UTech Child and Adolescents Development Club
27. ADPM Fashion Club
28. Real Estate Management and Valuation Students Society
29. UTech Vibes Optimist Club
30. UTech Visions
31. UTech Athletic Training Association
32. University of Technology Pharmaceutical Technology Students' Association (UT-PTSA)
33. Tourism Action Club










