student_financial_services_registration_and_enrolment.txt

STUDENT FINANCIAL SERVICES

Garcia Green-McLennon  
Director, Student Financing

OVERVIEW  
The information contained herein represents a comprehensive policy guideline on matters concerning student financing for undergraduate students, including information on fee payment requirements as well as student-related financial services offered by the University. All undergraduate students are required to comply with these policy directives and adhere to the attending procedures as outlined in this section of the Student Handbook. Please note that these policies and procedures are subject to change without notice.

FEE STRUCTURE  
THE ENROLMENT COMMITMENT DEPOSIT (ECD)  
All students are required to make a mandatory Enrolment Commitment Deposit (ECD) payment at the start of each semester in order to begin module selection. The ECD is not an additional fee; instead, it is a deposit towards the overall cost for each semester’s tuition and is non-refundable. The ECD is also non-transferable from one academic year to the next, except where students are approved for Leave of Absence or Deferral as a newly admitted student.

Once the ECD requirement is satisfied, students will be given the opportunity to select modules, and they are required to meet the minimum amount for financial clearance in each semester as per the approved payment plan options.

TUITION & ANCILLARY FEES  
Tuition fees are payable at the start of each semester, while the following non-refundable ancillary fees are payable annually, usually at the beginning of the academic year:
- Students’ Union Dues
- Health Insurance
- Student Welfare Fund
- Registration
- Jam Copy Tariff
- Health/Personal Accident Insurance
- Other fees where applicable (Law Library, Axis Journal, E-Books)

Students are required to pay all the fee components outlined above. In addition, some Colleges/Faculties may have other prescribed fees for particular activities. For example, Axis Journal fee – applicable to Faculty of the Built Environment, Law Library fee in the Faculty of Law, and the E-books fee, applicable to the College of Health Sciences.

Please note that the ECD paid in a student’s first semester will go towards the mandatory miscellaneous fees. Where the Ancillary Fees are more than the ECD, the student will be required to pay the difference at the start of the academic year.

TUITION FEES  
1. Tuition fees are calculated on a per credit basis and are based on the total number of credits taken by a student in a given semester.
2. The cost per credit for each module is determined by the Faculty/College from which the module is being offered, based on the associated credit value assigned to each module. The following guidelines are applicable as it relates to tuition fees.
3. Under Semesterization, students are allowed to select modules and class times online using UTech, Ja’s Students’ Portal, via the University’s website at www.utech.edu.jm.
4. Students can ascertain the cost per credit for each module from the respective College/Faculty that offers the respective modules. This information is displayed on the student's fee breakdown and on the Students’ Portal.

1. Based on the modules selected and the credit assignment for each module, an invoice is generated automatically; which details the total amount for which the student is billed for the modules selected; plus the miscellaneous fees.
2. The flexibility of semesterization allows students to take a minimum of nine (9) credits per semester; thereby giving them the freedom to meet their financial obligations to the University.
3. Irrespective of the number of modules selected, students are required to pay in full (100%) for all modules selected, as well as clear any outstanding balance previously owed to the University.
4. The number of modules selected can be as low as 9 credits or as high as 21 credits; and the number of modules selected should be based on the student’s ability to pay.
5. This means that the 100% fee payment requirement will vary from student to student; depending on the number of modules that are selected.
6. The University may decide to offer a payment plan to students.
7. If offered, all students who do not pay 100% of fees for modules selected by the Census Date, would default to the University’s Standard Payment Plan for that semester and would be subjected to all terms and conditions of the plan.
8. Students may request an estimate of fees from Student Financing Department by sending an email to [feesestimate@utech.edu.jm](mailto:feesestimate@utech.edu.jm)
9. The Estimate of Fees is offered at no cost

ANCILLARY FEES

1. Ancillary fees are applicable even if a student registers for one semester of the academic year.
2. Students, who are accepted to begin school in the January cohort, are required to pay ancillary fees in their first semester (January); as well as at the start of the next academic year (August). Even though both periods fall within one (1) calendar year, they span two (2) academic years.
3. Ancillary fees are non-refundable and would only be refunded, if the University withdraws the offer to the student or if the course of study to which the student has applied has been cancelled.


PROCEDURES FOR GENERATING INVOICES

1. Log into the Students’ Portal via website [www.utech.edu.jm](http://www.utech.edu.jm)
2. Select module to be pursued at the beginning of each semester and the summer session.
3. Submit and confirm modules, then print invoice for modules selected
4. Pay in full or according to the approved payment plan, at any of the University’s approved payment gateways: Paymaster or Bill Express Island-wide; as well as Jamaica National Building Society (JNBS), or National Commercial Bank (NCB).
5. Await financial clearance by monitoring the ‘In-Tray’ on the Students’ Portal.
6. After two (2) clear working days (Monday to Friday), check the ‘In-Tray’ on the Students’ Portal for the Financial Clearance (FC) message.
7. If modules are not confirmed and the clearance type printed based on the approved payment plan, then financial clearance will not be granted.
8. When financial clearance (FC) is granted, follow the steps outlined within the FC message to complete the enrolment clearance process online.
9. Please note that the financial clearance process is automated and will be granted electronically when full payment has been received, as outlined in the notice.



REGISTRATION CENSUS DATE
The University will notify students of the Registration Census Date for each semester. The Census Date is the final date for students to be registered on-time, in order to avoid late fee penalties.
The Census Date is also important because it is the final date for students to indicate to the University their intention to enroll for a given semester. This will allow the University to effectively plan for the delivery of classes in that semester.


IMPLICATIONS OF THE REGISTRATIONCENSUS DATE
Any confirmed modules which remain on the 
system after the Census Date, would be consid
ered an indication from the student that: 
• he/she intends to be in school for that
 semester;
 • the modules confirmed are the ones the
 student will undertake;
 • the modules confirmed are the ones for
 which the student should be held liable.
 Essentially by confirming the modules as at the 
Census Date, a student has given the University 
the go-ahead to provide the required resources 
for teaching and learning for that semester. This 
means the student accepts full liability for the 
fees generated as of module selection and  
conformation. 

CENSUS DATE – REWARDS FOR PAYING  ON TIME 

Students who pay in-full by the Census Date – 
Get Cash Back 
• A 2% rebate on tuition only.
 • Automatic clearance to sit exams 
HOW TO PAY YOUR FEES 
The process in paying fees involves students 
using any of the payment gateways and follow
ing the instructions outlined below. 

Payment Locations in Jamaica:

1.  Fees can be paid by cash, debit/credit card or Manager's Cheques at any of the follow-ing locations:

    a.  Paymaster outlets island-wide
    b.  Bill Express outlets island-wide
    c.  National Commercial Bank (NCB) branches island-wide
    d.  Jamaica National Building Society – JN Bank (JNBS)

2.  Your name and Student Identification Number are required for all payment trans-actions.

3.  It will take at least two (2) working days (Monday to Friday) for fees paid at the external payment agencies to be finan-cially cleared.

4.  Financial clearance may exceed two (2) working days during the busiest periods of registration.

5.  Personal Cheques will NOT be accepted at external payment agencies.

PAYMENT PROCEDURES FOR NCB CUSTOMERS ONLY:

In order to facilitate payment at the bank, you will need the following documents:

1.  UTech's Fee Breakdown Sheet (invoice) for tuition or boarding, which will indicate the student's name, ID number and amount to be paid

2.  A completed regular NCB deposit voucher  indicating clearly if the payment is for tuition or boarding  

3.Tuition and boarding must not be paid on
 the same deposit voucher; two separate
 deposit vouchers are needed.

 The following information must be stated 
clearly on the deposit voucher: 

1.UTech’s Account Number: 371360247
 (JA$ payments) OR

  2. UTech’s Account Number: 371060375
 (US$ payments)

 3.  Student’s Name
 4. Student’s Identification Number 
 5. The amount being paid
 6.  The name of the person making the pay
ment, which must be written in the section
 “PAID IN  By _____”
 7.  “UTech School Fee Payment” stated in the 
section “ACCOUNT NAME____________”
 8. Students are encouraged to retain all
 receipts for transactions done at the
 University and at our external payment
 agencies for future reference.


  PAYMENTS BY E-BANKING  
Payments in local currency can be made to the 
E-Banking facility (NCB customers only); The
 following are the instructions to access NCB
 Online: at www.jncb.com

1. Go to www.jncb.com
2. Select the “Bill payments” tab
3. Click “Add bill payee”
 4. Select “Schools & universities”
 5.  Click “Next”
6.  Select “University of Technology Jamaica”
7. Enter your ID number (NB. ensure the ID
 number is correct as you will not be asked 
for an ID number when making future pay
ments, however you can edit the payee in
 the future)
 8.  Enter ‘Tuition’ as the Transaction Type

 PAYING FEES OVERSEAS (WIRE TRANSFER) 
Transfer of funds should be made to National 
Commercial Bank (NCB), Branch location for 
local transfers: Matilda’s Corner, Kingston 6; 
International Transfers: Corporate Branch 32 
Trafalgar Road, Kingston 5 Jamaica, W. I.  The 
following should be stated to the representa
tive at the bank.

1.  UTech's Account Number 371060375; for students invoiced in US$ or UTech's Account Number 371360247; for students invoiced in J$
2.  SWIFT CODE: JNCB JMKX
3.  Student's Name
4.  Student's Identification Number
5.  Indicate the type of payment being made i.e. "Tuition Payment" OR "Boarding Payment"
6.  Include details of student's name and iden- tification number in wire transfer details.
7.  Send confirmation of payment  to the Student Financial Services Unit at fincustomersupport@utech.edu.jm.

Please pay attention to the following condition-alities:

1.  That wire transfers take an average of up to fifteen (15) working days or more, depend-ing on the point of origin of the transfer.
2.  Any charges incurred during the transfer will be deducted from the original amount being sent and the remainder applied to the recipient's account.
3.  Students should verify with their banks, that the address of the sender meets the international standards for wire transfer transactions. This means that the sender's domicile should be identifiable when searched via satellite.
4.  If this information is not disclosed by sender, this will delay or prevent the trans-action from being processed at UTech's bank.

PAYMASTER/BILL EXPRESS PAYMENT PROCEDURES

1.  Students are required to indicate the fol-lowing to the teller at any of the Pay-master/Bill Express offices island-wide:

    * Student Identification Number
    * Student Name
    * Amount being paid
    * Indicate that payment is being made to "UTech"

2. Indicate the type of payment being 
made, eg. tuition, boarding , transcript, 
graduation etc. 

 3. Students should ensure that the details
 printed on the receipt corresponds to the
 information given to the cashier (UTech
 Bank Account number is NOT required).
 Students are also encouraged to retain all
 receipts for transactions done with the Uni
versity and at our external payment
 agencies for future reference.


UNDERGRADUATE FEE PAYMENT SCHEDULE – SEMESTER ONE, 2024/2025  
Census Date – Friday September 30, 2024  

Date  
Details  

Aug 08 – Sep 30  
• Pay mandatory Enrolment Commitment Deposit (ECD) to begin Enrolment  
• Access to classes and completion of registration will be granted ONLY after the following conditions are met:  
   - Students have been given academic progression by his/her College/Faculty;  
   - New and Returning Local Students - J$30,000.00  
   - New and Returning International Students – US$275.00  
   - The ECD is not a charge, it is a deposit (payment) towards overall tuition cost  
• The Admission & Enrolment Office has created students’ enrolment record for semester one  
• Students have paid the ECD and waited two (2) clear working days for his/her account to be updated with the payment.  

Aug 08 – Sep 30  
Option 1 – Pay Tuition & Boarding in Full & On-time by Census to benefit from Rebate  
• 100% Payment by Census Date will allow students to receive a 2% Rebate on tuition only.  

N.B. The rebate is:  
   - Applicable only to fully registered self-financed students;  
   - Not applicable to Sponsored/Scholarship students including SLB recipients;  
   - Only applicable where students also complete the 10-step process on-line to complete registration.  

Aug 08 – Nov 30  
Option 2 – Pay Tuition in Part according to the stipulated Installment Deadlines  
Semester 1 Tuition Invoice can be paid in Three (3) Instalments:  
• 1st Installment (30%) to be paid by September 30, 2024 – Failure to meet 30% of total semester’s tuition invoice by September 30, 2024 will result in accounts being charged a Late Registration Fee of J$10,000.00 or US$100.00  
• 2nd Installment (30%) to be paid by October 31, 2024 – Failure to meet 60% (30+30) of total semester’s tuition by October 29, will result in accounts being charged a Facility Fee of J$10,000.00/US$100.00  
• 3rd Installment (40%) to be paid by November 30, 2024 – Failure to meet 100% (30+30+40) of total semester’s tuition invoice by November 30, 2024 will result in accounts (E:Vision Portal) being blocked at the end of the semester. Where accounts are blocked due to outstanding balances, students will be prevented from registering in subsequent academic sessions and will not be able to receive clearance for award of certification; until outstanding fees are cleared  
• A Delinquency Fee of J$10,000.00 or US$100.00 per month up to a maximum of J$20,000.00 or US$200.00 will be charged for all outstanding fees (tuition & boarding) beyond November 30, 2024.  

Aug 08 – Nov 30  
Part-Payment and Conditionalities for Boarding Students  
Semester 1 Boarding Invoice is to be paid in Three (3) Instalments:  
• 1st Installment (30%) of total semester’s boarding invoice to be paid by September 30, 2024  
• 2nd Installment (30%) of total semester’s boarding invoice to be paid by October 31, 2024  
• 3rd Installment (40%) of total semester’s boarding invoice to be paid by November 30, 2024  

Aug 08 – Nov 30  
Conditionalities for Part-Payment Plan – Boarding & Tuition  
Boarding students are required to:  
• Pay the minimum 30% of total Boarding invoice, as well as 30% of total Tuition invoice by September 30, 2024; in order to avoid Late Registration Fee of J$10,000.00 or US$100.00.  
• Pay a minimum of 60% of total Boarding Invoice as well as 60% of total Tuition invoice by October 31, 2024 in order to avoid the Facility Fee of J$10,000.00 or US$100.00  
• Complete full payment (100%) of Boarding and Tuition Invoice by November 30, 2024 in order to avoid account (E:Vision Portal) being blocked at the end of the semester. Where accounts are blocked due to outstanding balances, students will be prevented from registering in subsequent academic sessions and will not be able to receive clearance for award of certification; until outstanding fees are cleared.  

SLB Students awaiting Final Loan Approval  
• SLB students are reminded as a condition of their SLB loan, they are required to pay in full the annual Miscellaneous Fees (out-of-pocket) in order to be financially cleared; even with a fully approved loan.  
• The payment of the ECD will therefore go towards covering these annual ancillary fees. Where the ancillary fees for a specific programme exceeds the ECD of $30,000.00; students MUST also pay the difference, in order to be financially cleared.  
• SLB students are encouraged to submit all required documents to ensure that they secure a fully approved loan by the Census Date, September 30, 2024.  
• No Fee Penalties will be applied to SLB students awaiting final loan approval.  

Fully Sponsored / Scholarship Students  
• Recipients of Full Scholarship/Sponsorship are not required to pay the ECD; where their scholarship/sponsorship covers the full amount for each semester.  
• Scholarship/sponsorship students with prior year credit balances equal or exceeding the minimum ECD requirement, will need to contact the Student Financial Services Unit: fincustomersupport@utech.ecu.jm Unit to request the transfer of funds from the previous academic year to the current one.  


 FEE PAYMENT PROCEDURES FOR SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENTS 


 Students who are recipients of full/part
 scholarships are required to make contact
 with the Scholarship Unit and submit
 written verification of their scholarship and
 their Fee Breakdown Sheet.

 Scholarship recipients should send their
 Scholarship Letter to the attention of Mrs.
 Pauline Madourie and submit by email to
 pmadourie@utech.edu.jm; or drop off
 scholarship letters in person to the
 Scholarship Office at the Papine Campus.

 This is to allow for the registration of the
 scholarship on their account, so that they
 may receive financial clearance.

 Scholarship recipients from any of our
 satellite campuses are required to submit
 the aforementioned documents to the
 Administrative Office at their respective
 campuses. The Campus Administrator/
 Assistant Registrar of that campus will for- 
ward them to the Scholarship Unit at the 
Papine Campus for processing

Scholarship recipients who do not have
 approved scholarship in time for the Cen- 
sus date, will be subject to the require- 
ments of the Standard Fee Payment Plan

Financial clearance can only be given
 when a written Donor Commitment is
 received by the Financial Aid Office or the
 minimum payment made, according to the
 approved payment plans.

Where Scholarship commitments are not
 received by the Scholarship Office before
 the Census Date to allow for financial clear- 
ance, these students are subject to all con- 
ditionalities as stated in the approved
 payment plan.

Scholarship recipients are required to pay
 all fees in excess of the amount covered by
 the scholarship, in order to receive
 financial clearance in any given semester.

Scholarship students who have failed mod- 
ules will be required to bear the full cost to
 redo the modules; unless otherwise stipul-       
ated by the Donor in writing.

Students are required to liaise with the
 Scholarship Office to ensure that the
 scholarship donor pays the agreed fees
 within the agreed time.

 If the scholarship donor fails to pay the 
required fees, the student is ultimately 
liable and will be required to pay all out- 
standing Fees, On Demand.


FEE PAYMENT PROCEDURES FOR SPONSORED STUDENTS

 Sponsored students are required to submit
 their Letter of Undertaking from their
 sponsor; in order to be registered for a
 given semester.

 The sponsorship letter can be dropped off
 at the Sponsorship Unit (located in Finance
 and Business Services Division) or it may be
 sent by email to studentcollections@
 utech.edu.jm.

 Students should aim to finalize their spon- 
sorship, so that at the very least, a written
 commitment to pay can be given by the
 sponsor to the University, before the Cen- 
sus Date in each semester.

 Students who do not have approval for
 their sponsorship in time for the Census
 Date requirement, are subject to the
 requirements of the Standard Payment
 Plan for a given semester.

 Financial clearance can only be given with
 a letter of commitment to pay at least the
 minimum fee payment requirement,
 according to the approved payment plans.

 Where sponsorship commitments are not
 received by the sponsorship office before
 the Census Date to allow for financial clear- 
ance, these students are subject to all con- 
ditionalities/penalties for non-payment as
 stated in the approved payment plan.

 Sponsored students are required to pay all
 fees in excess of the amount covered by
 the sponsorship.

 Sponsored students from any of the sate- 
lite campuses are required to submit their
 letter of commitment from the sponsor to
 the Administrative Office at the respective
 campuses; where the administrator of that
 campus will forward them to the Sponsor- 
ship Unit at the Papine Campus for pro- 
cessing.

 Sponsors are required to pay all outstand- 
ing fees within 30 working days of the offi- 
cial close of registration each semester.

Students must ensure that their sponsors
 adhere to the credit conditionalities and
 comply with the stipulated payment dead- 
lines.

If the sponsor fails to pay by the stipulated
 deadline, the student is ultimately liable
 and will be required to pay all outstanding
 fees, on demand

FEE PAYMENT PROCEDURES FOR STAFF MEMBERS & DEPENDENTS OF STAFF MEMBERS

 Staff members or dependents of staff
 members who are eligible for a tuition
 waiver are required to submit their fee
 breakdown to the Human Resource (H.R.)
 Department for approval.

 Staff members are required to meet the
 ECD requirement in order to begin module
 selection, pending approval of the spon
sorship through the Human Resource
 Department.

 Once the H.R. Department gives the
 approval and states the value of the waiver,
 this information will be forwarded elec
tronically to the Students Receivable Unit
 in order for the student’s account to be 
updated.

 The student is then required to pay the
 remaining tuition/miscellaneous fees
 required for enrolment.

 Staff members may also make arrange
ments via salary deduction or staff guaran
tee to pay outstanding fees for themselves
 or their dependents.

 This arrangement is made through the Stu
dent Debt Recovery Unit and must be
 approved by the Receivables Accountant
 or the Director of Student Financing /and
 the Payroll Department.


Where a staff member sets up an approved
 payment arrangement via salary deduction 
to settle 100% of balance outstanding, the 
student may receive financial clearance 
and be exempted from the facility fees.

 If an employee settles the outstanding fees
 over the counter before and wishes to can
cel the payroll deduction order; s/he may
 complete a Stop Order Request through
 the Student Debt Recovery Unit; and pres
ent the original receipt to substantiate the
 settling of the debt. The request will be
 reviewed and approval will be given by the
 Receivables Accountant (if the students 
account is fully settled), to cease the pay
roll deductions.

ersity of Technology, 
Jamaica (UTech, Ja.) has implemented an initia- 
tive to recognize and reward students who 
attend to their tuition requirements in full and 
on-time each semester. Students who pay 
100% of their tuition and miscellaneous fees 
on-time and complete the 10-step process on
line to complete registration by the Census 
Date will receive a 2% rebate on tuition fees 
only.

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

All fully registered students both local and
 international, at the undergraduate level.

Students may be attending any one of the
 University’s campuseFEE PAYMENT PROCEDURES FOR EARN & STUDY STUDENTS 

 Students employed on the University's
 Earn & Study Programme are allowed to
 make tuition and boarding payment via
 the Earn & Study Tuition Payment Agree
ment.

 This agreement will allow students to 
receive financial clearance for enrolment or 
boarding, by committing to pay these fees
 from future earnings under the Earn &
 Study Programme 

The fees are deducted at source from the
 stipend paid to student work at each pay
roll period (fortnightly or monthly).

 Students who do not adhere to the terms
 and conditions of the agreement are subject to all penalties applied to students 
with outstanding balances. 

 Interested students can make this arrange
ment through the Student Welfare Unit.

 Arrangements will be made by the Student
 Welfare Office to collect the tuition pay
ments at source, for each payroll period,
 until the full commitment is honoured.

GUIDELINES FOR TUITION REBATE

RATIONALE

In a bid to augment our fee payment offerings 
to students, the Univs, including all satel
lite campuses in Jamaica.

Students must be fully registered and all
 fees paid in full by 11:59PM on the Census
 Date

Students must be self-financed and should
 not be receiving sponsorship/scholarship
 to cover any portion of the tuition.

 Students should not make any changes to
 their invoices after the Census Date.

 Persons receiving Fee Waivers (grants)
 from UTech Ja.’s H.R. Department are not
 eligible.

 Students who are employees of UTech,
 Jamaica are not eligible.

 Students who serve on the Students’ Union
 Executive are not eligible.

 Students receiving grants from the Univer
sity’s Student Welfare Office or the Stu
dents’ Union are not eligible. 

Students pursuing studies at UTech
 Academy, or Short Courses are not eligible.


CONDITIONALITIES

 The Rebate will be applied on all accounts
 where students pay 100% of fees by the
 Census Date.

 Students may make multiple payments,
 but the sum total of those payments must
 be equal to 100% of tuition & miscella
neous fees by Census Date.

 The 100% fee payment must be received
 by the University or its agencies (NCB, Bill
 Express, Paymaster, and JN) by 11:59 PM on
 the Census Date

GENERAL PROCEDURES FOR FINANCIAL CLEARANCE 

Financial clearance will only be given after
 students have selected and confirmed
 their modules, and have paid the required
 fees in full (including any outstanding fees
 from previous semesters).

 SLB recipients, scholarship and sponsored
 students must pay the ancillary fees in full,
 in order to receive financial clearance.

 SLB recipients, scholarship and sponsored
 students must pay any amount in excess of
 the amount covered by their sponsor/
 donor, in order to receive financial clear
ance.

 The financial clearance process has now 
been automated therefore students will 
not be required to visit the campus for
 “Financial Clearance”. Manual clearance is
 not available.

 The Receivable Department, in conjunc
tion with the Enterprise Application Sys
tems (EAS) Department, will upload data
 provided by the payment agencies to the
 students’ accounts, based on the payment 
records received, in order to facilitate auto
matic financial clearance.

 Students should refer to the Online Reg
istration Guide on the Students’ Portal
 which outlines the steps for completing
 the enrolment Process


  Students will receive regular messages on
 their portal, to inform them of their reg
istration status.

 Students are required to monitor their por
tal ‘In tray’ for messages regarding financial
 clearance. They are further urged to take 
note of the details of the messages and fol
low the recommended actions.

 If after two (2) clear working days following
 fee payment, a financial clearance message
 does not appear in the ‘In tray’, please con
tact the Student Financial Services Unit via
 email fincustomersupport@utech.edu.jm.

  The notification message you will receive
 in your ‘in tray’ may include any of the 
following: 

 a. “You have been financially cleared . . .”
 b. “You have not paid the requisite
 amount to be registered . . . The
 remaining balance must be settled to
 avoid penalties.”
 c. “Your financial status cannot be
 assessed because you have not con
firmed your module selections.”

 Please pay special attention to the instructions 
displayed which would indicate if there is a 
problem with your registration and follow the 
recommended actions. You cannot be reg
istered unless: 


a. the requisite fees have been paid
b. your modules are confirmed

 Financial clearance is given electronically
  based on your invoice and payment 
agreement.


IMPLICATIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH FEE PAYMENT REQUIREMENTS 

Students are urged to pursue the number of 
modules based on affordability based on the 
flexibility of semesterization. Where students 
opt to take a payment plan, it is expected that 
they will honour their financial obligations as 
stipulated in the payment plan, in order to 
avoid arrears. A student will be deemed to be in 
arrears if: 
• fees from previous years remain unpaid
 (such a student will not normally be
 allowed to register).
 • an expected payment is not received on or
 before the due date.
 • any late fees or miscellaneous fees are
 unpaid


Students who are not registered will be
 delisted.

 Students whose payments are late may be
 charged a late fee.

 Students who are in arrears will be blocked
 from viewing grades and enrolling in sub
sequent semesters.

 Provisionally enrolled students who utilize
 the University’s services by attending
 classes but fail to complete their registra
tion by the stipulated date, will NOT be
 allowed to sit exams.

 The names of the students who fail to settle
 the outstanding payments may be pub
lished in the local newspaper, sent to the 
Credit Bureau, and to the external debt  
collector.

 Before a student account is transferred to
 any of the medium stated above, reminder
 and demand notices will be sent using the
 email and address the student provided.

 Once a student’s account has been trans
ferred to the external debt collector, a serv
ice charge for the collector will be applied
 to student’s account, as such we urge all
 students to settle promptly.

 Students who are in arrears may be deb
ited normal student privileges, including
 access to the library / medical services etc.
 Students in arrears will NOT be able to
 access transcripts, awards or status letters,
 until the balances are settled in full.

 Students are being reminded to ensure
 that they update their contact information
 on the system, so that they can receive
 notices, and any communication from the
 University.

 THE STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
 THE APPLICATION PROCESS

 The Students' Loan Bureau (SLB) funds tuition 
fees for studies being pursued at Universities – 
both publicly and privately owned, Community 
Colleges and Teachers’ Colleges, as well as other 
institutions approved by the Ministry of Educa
tion.  The process of acquiring a loan from the 
SLB has evolved over the last four decades from 
a paper-based system of applications to being 
fully online.  Applications for any of the three 3 
loan types: The Targeted Loan, SLB PAYS Loan 
and Post Graduate Loan can be accessed by vis
iting the Bureau’s website – www.slbja.com.  

The SLB funds tuition and examination fees 
ONLY.  Therefore, it is important to note that, if 
you have failed a module and you are repeat
ing, the SLB will not cover the cost of that 
repeated module. SLB beneficiaries must take 
the FULL COURSE LOAD required by the institu
tion for the specified academic year. 

The application period for each academic year 
usually commences in February and extends to 
May.

Who is eligible to apply for a Target loan?

• Jamaican citizens of ages 18 to 65
 • Persons who will be pursuing studies or are
 currently attending an approved tertiary
 Institution


Who is eligible to apply for a SLB PAYS loan? 
• Jamaican citizens of ages 18 to 65
 • Students who have been employed in their
 current jobs for at least one year and
 whose places of employment facilitate sal
ary deduction;
 • Parents/ Guardians/Spouse who wish to
 apply on behalf of the student and meet
 the above employment criteria

Who is eligible to apply for a Post Grad loan? 
• Jamaican citizens of ages 18 to 65
 • Students who have been employed in their
 current jobs for at least one year and
 whose places of employment facilitate
 salary deduction.

How do I apply for a loan? 

RETURNING SLB BENEFICIARIES 
All returning applicants are required to submit 
a one-page electronic renewal application 
called a status report form by the application 
deadline to facilitate the renewal of their loans. 
• Visit the SLB website – www.slbja.com
 • Click on the apply online tab
 • Click the sign up tab to register
 • Follow the instructions outlined by the SLB
 to complete the application


NEW APPLICANTS TO THE SLB 

New applicants are required to complete a 12
page electronic application form and submit 
the relevant application documents within the 
specified time frame. Late applicants may com
municate with the SLB’s Loan Processing Unit 
regarding a late application period and fee.  
• Visit the SLB website – www.slbja.com
 • Click on the apply online tab
 • Click the sign up tab to register
 • Read and follow the instructions provided
 to you by the SLB to complete the application

 NOTE: New applicants can apply for an SLB 
loan prior to receiving an offer from the tertiary 
institution.

What do I need to apply for a loan?

One certified passport size photograph 
(certified by a Justice of the Peace or
 Attorney).

Taxpayer Registration Number (TRN). TRN 
card or the slip issued by TRN Office must
 be presented.

One (1) Photographic Identification (one of 
the following)
 a. Valid Passport
 b. Valid Driver’s License OR
 c. National Identification (Voter’s ID)

 Birth Certificate (original or Certified copy
 is acceptable)

Transcript/Examination results along with
 Student identification card (Applicable to
 students who are already enrolled in an
 approved programme of study).

 Letter of acceptance for students who will
 be entering the institution for the first
 time.

Proof of banking information to include i.
 Name of Bank, ii. Branch, iii. Account
 Holder and iv. Account number.  Proof can
 be in the form of (a) Bank book or (b) Bank
 statement 

Income verification for all employed
 members of the household.
 Methods of income verification include:

a.Letter from employer stating job title and gross salary earned whether 
annually, monthly, fortnightly or 
weekly; 

b. Last three (3) pay slips;

c. For informal self-employed members
 of the household – Declaration of
 Self-Employment Form;

d.For formal self-employed members of
 the household – a current audited
 account from a certified Accountant;

e. For persons who are employed to
 basic schools that are governed by
 the Ministry of Education (MOE), they 
will be required to submit the three
 last payslips from the Ministry of Edu
cation (MOE) and a job letter signed
 and stamped from the basic school.

For households where there is NO
 employed members (inclusive of the appli
cant), a Zero Income Household Form must
 be completed and notarized by a Justice of
 the Peace.


Proof of PATH benefit for household
 member(s) registered under the PATH
 scheme by means of a:
 a.NCB PATH Cash Card;
 b.A letter from the Ministry of Labour & Social Security OR
 c. A PATH cheque-stub (within the past
 6 months of submission)

Declaration Form (original document must be submitted to the SLB’s office)

If you are applying to a university as a new student, you can bring in the acceptance letter as 
soon as you have received it from the institu
tion. However, all other documents as outlined 
above must be brought in order for the loan to 
be processed.

The Students' Loan Bureau website – 
www.slbja.com houses all relevant information 
on the how, when and where of applying for a 
loan. The SLB’s process is a convenient one that 
allows the student to complete the form at 
intervals where assistance may be sought for 
clarification as necessary. 

For further information please feel free to email 
the Students’ Loan Bureau at info@slbja.com; by 
phone at 876-619-4752; or  
WhatsApp 876-279-8080.  

STUDENTS’ REFUNDS POLICY

GENERAL GUIDELINES
 In the case where a student has overpaid
 on his/her account, the student has the
 option to request a refund or allow the
 funds to be applied to the next semester’s
 fee.

 Refund applications are accepted at the
 end of each academic year so as to ensure
 that students adequately cover their finan
cial obligations for the entire academic
 year. The refund application periods are as
 follows

 • May 15–July 31 – Students whose last 
enrolment for the A/Y is semester two

 • July 01–August 31 – Students whose 
last enrolment for the A/Y is in the
 summer session

 The processing time for a refund is at least
 15 working days, after approval.

 Failure to correctly complete the applica
tion form and/or submit ALL the required
 documentation (including payment
 receipts); may result in a delay in process
ing the refund.

 In the case of 3 above, the refund will not
 be paid until the outstanding documents
 for the year in which the refund is being
 sought are submitted.

 Please note that scholarship/sponsorship 
recipients should allow an additional 5
 working days for processing as these appli
cations must also be vetted and verified by
 the Financial Aid Office.

 Students will be advised via an email from
 the Receivables Department when their
 refund application is received and pro
cessed.

 If approved, the refund will be processed
 based on the method of payment used in
 the original transaction as follows:

 • Where payment was made using 
cash, debit/credit card, Manager’s
 Cheque at any the University’s exter
nal payment agencies, the refund will
 be paid by cheque and can be col
lected at the cheque Disbursement
 Unit on the Administration Building

  • Where payment was made using a 
credit card via UTech online, the
 refund will be charged back to the
 credit card holder whose credit card
 was used to make the payment to
 UTech, Ja


ACCOUNT OVERPAYMENT – SELF FINANCED STUDENTS 

 Self-financed students are those who have
 paid 100% of their fees ‘out of pocket’, that
 is without the assistance of a sponsorship
 or scholarship. These payments can be
 made by cash, manager’s cheque, debit or
 credit card, and will be processed as per
 the general guideline stated above.

 Where there is an overpayment on the 
account of a self-financed student, the stu
dent may apply for a refund at the end of
 the academic year, within the stipulated
 period as outlined above.

 In order to submit a refund application at
 the end of the academic year, students are
 required to download the refund applica
application form from the University's website at
 www.utech.edu.jm.

 The completed application form is to be
 submitted along with copies of all receipts
 for the academic year.

ACCOUNT OVERPAYMENT–SPONSORED STUDENTS  


 Sponsored students can only be refunded
 for the portion of their fees paid out of
 pocket.

  Where sponsors overpay, refunds will only
 be paid to the student if the sponsor gives
 written instructions to the University for
 the excess funds to be paid to the specific
 student(s).

 Without this written instruction from the
 sponsor, the overpayment on the account
 will be returned to the sponsor, at the end
 of the academic year.

 Where the sponsor gives written instruc
tions for the student to receive the refund,
 the student will be required to complete
 the refund application form and attach the
 supporting documents.
 
 The completed application form is to be
 submitted along with copies of all receipts
 paid out of pocket for the academic year (if applicable).

 Sponsored students are required to iden
tify themselves on the application form by
 indicating the name of sponsor(s), the
 amount received and the academic year in
 which it was received.

 Refund applications are to be submitted
 online to the email address refundapplica
tions@utech.edu.jm.


ACCOUNT OVERPAYMENT – SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENTS  

Scholarship recipients can only be refunded for 
the portion of their fees paid out of pocket. 


Where a donor overpays, refunds will only
 be paid to the student, only if the donor 
gives written instructions to the University 
for the excess funds to be paid to the spe
cific scholarship recipient(s).  

 These instructions must be sent in writing
 by the donor; identifying the student by
 name and ID number and state clearly how
 the excess funds are to be utilized. The
 Scholarship Office guides the recipient on
 the procedure to write to the donor.

 Without written instruction from the
 donor, the overpayment on the account
 will be returned to the donor, at the end of
 the academic year.

 This written instruction can be in the form
 of an official letter from the Donor; or an
 official email where the Donor’s full name
 and title are clearly stated. The Scholarship
 Interview Sheet is not sufficient to allow for
 the payment of funds to students.

 Where the donor gives written instructions
 for the student to receive the refund, the
 student will be required to complete the
 refund application form and attach the
 supporting documents.

 The completed application form is to be
 submitted along with copies of all receipts
 paid out of pocket for the academic year
 (where applicable).

 Scholarship recipients are required to com
plete a specific refund form that is not used
 for self-financed or sponsored students.
 The form requires the scholarship recipient
  to indicate the name of the scholarship, 
the value of the award and the academic 
year in which the award was received. 

REFUND PROCEDURE –MODULE DEFERRAL BY A COLLEGE/FACULTY

(See module withdrawal policy below.)

 Modules can only be deferred by a Col
lege/Faculty, where the module is can
celled or rescheduled because of specific
 challenges with the delivery of the module.

 Under such circumstances (item 2 above),
 the University may consider refunding the
 fees for the module(s) which were can
celled/rescheduled

 The College/Faculty would be required to 
write to the Enrolment Officer in the Office 
of Admission and Enrolment Management, 
indicating the module(s) that were 
deferred, the reason for the deferral and the 
names of the affected students. The memo 
should also be copied to the Scheduling 
Unit.

The Office of Admission and Enrolment
 Management would do the necessary sys
tem checks to verify the information sent
 by the College/Faculty, and would ensure
 that the enrolment records of the affected
 students reflect the change(s)

  The Office of Admission and Enrolment
 Management then writes to the Receiv
ables Accountant to advise of the deferral,
 the reason and the affected students and
 request that the associated fees for the
 modules deferred be removed.

  The Receivables Accountant reviews the
 submission and if approved, an adjustment
 would be done to credit the affected stu
dent's account with the amount approved.

If the adjustment when applied brings the
 student’s overall balance to a credit posi
tion, the student may apply for a refund or
 allow the funds to remain on the account
 to be applied to future charges.

REFUND PROCEDURE – MODULE COLLAPSING BY A COLLEGE/FACULTY 

 A Faculty/College may collapse a module if
 the student enrolment numbers are below
 that which was projected. Under such cir
cumstances, the University may consider
 refunding the fees for the module(s) which
 were collapsed.

 The College/Faculty would be required to
 write to the Enrolment Officer in the Office
 of Admission and Enrolment Management,
 indicating the module(s) that was/were
 collapsed, the reason for the collapse and
 the names of the affected students. The
 memo should also be copied to the Sched
uling Unit.

 The Office of Admission and Enrolment
 Management would do the necessary sys
tem checks to verify the information sent
 by the College/Faculty and would ensure
 that the enrolment records of the affected
 students reflect the changes.

 The Office of Admission and Enrolment
  Management would write to the Receiv
ables Accountant to advise of the collaps
ing of the module, the reason and the 
affected students and request that the 
associated fees be removed for the col
lapsed modules. 

 The Receivables Accountant would then
 review the submission and if approved, an
 adjustment will be done to credit the
 affected student’s account with the
 amount approved.

  If the adjustment when applied, brings the
 student’s overall balance to a credit posi
tion; the student may apply for a refund or
 allow the funds to remain on the account
 to be applied to future charges.

REFUND PROCEDURE – FOR LEAVE OF ABSENCE (LOA)

Leave of absence is the suspension of studies, 
up to the third week of the semester or aca
demic year with the approval of the University. 
In order to be classified as a LOA, the student 
should have no interaction with the ISAS sys
tem. This means the student should not have 
engaged in module(s) selection. Additionally, 
please note the following:

 If the student applies for LOA after the
 third week of the semester, then s/he
 would not be eligible for LOA, but instead
 would be approved for a Withdrawal from
 his/her course of study; and under this cir
cumstance the withdrawal policy will apply
 (see page 102)

 Informing a Faculty member of non
attendance at classes, does not constitute
 official notification or approval for official
 withdrawal from your course of study.

 Students requesting LOA are required to
 complete a Faculty Student Academic
 Affairs Committee Request (FSAAC) Form 
and submit it to the Registrar, through the
 Student Relations Office.

 If the student applies within the stipulated 
time (up to the third week of the semester) 
and is approved for LOA, and the student 
has already made payment towards his/her 
fees; then s/he would be eligible for a full 
refund of fees paid for the semester that 
the LOA is approved, provided there is no 
other outstanding balance to the Univer
sity. 

The date on which the request is received
 by the Registrar’s Office will be used to
 compute the refund.

 Students applying for a refund will be
 required to submit the original payment
 receipt and other supporting documents
 to the Student Relations Office.

 REFUND PROCEDURE –WITHDRAWAL FROM 
PROGRAMME OF STUDY FOR A SEMESTER

The University of Technology, Jamaica projects 
expenses for the provision of services to stu
dents prior to the beginning of each semester, 
based on the number of students who
have indicated their intention to enroll. Students who withdraw from their programme during the semester or cancel their enrolment prior to the beginning of the semester may deprive others of the opportunity to gain entry for that semester.  
This may create enrolment vacancies which cannot be filled and ultimately may prevent the University from achieving its income target. 
Therefore, any refund of fees for Programme Withdrawal for a semester, will be in strict accordance with the guidelines outlined below: 
1.	Students desirous of withdrawing from their programme for a semester are required to give written notice to the University Registrar.
2.	Informing a Faculty member of nonattendance at classes does not constitute official notification or approval. Written approval from the Registrar is required for a refund to be considered under the University’s Refund Policy.
3.	Students requesting withdrawal should complete a ‘Faculty Student Academic Affairs Committee Request (FSAC) Form’ and submit it to the Registrar, through the Student Relations Office.
4.	Refunds are processed in accordance with the stipulated Refund Payment Schedule for Withdrawal.
5.	Requests for refunds outside of the stipulated Refund Payment Schedule will not be approved.
6.	Registered students who have made part payment of fees and have applied for withdrawal after the specified deadlines (outlined in refund schedule), will NOT be entitled to a refund and will be required to pay the remaining fees before they resume their course of study.
7.	If the request is received outside of the stipulated deadlines, all outstanding fees for the semester of withdrawal must be settled before readmission is granted.
8.	A student who is expelled or suspended will not be entitled to any fee refund for the semester in which the violation occurred.
9.	Students who write to the University Registrar and are granted permission to withdraw from a programme will receive a refund of tuition fees according to the Refund Eligibility Schedule set out below.
10.	The date on which the withdrawal request is received by the Registrar’s Office will be used as the withdrawal date for computing the refund.
11.	The postmark date on the envelope will be used as the withdrawal date for requests sent by mail, and that date will be used for computing the refund.
12.	The Accounts Receivables Unit refunds tuition fees within six weeks, provided that all information and documents have been submitted by the Student Relations Office.
13.	Refunds are based on the assessment of charges incurred, e.g., administrative fees, and not upon the amount paid.
14.	Students applying for a refund are required to submit the original payment receipt and other supporting documents to the Student Relations Office.


REFUND PROCEDURE – MODULE WITHDR AWALL 
1.	Requests to withdraw from modules must be submitted to the Head of School for approval no less than two weeks before the official suspension of classes for the semester or the summer session.
2.	There is NO refund of module fees when a student withdraws from a module. Students who have withdrawn from module(s) will be required to pay the full fees to attempt the module(s), at the next available sitting.
3.	However, consideration may be given where there are extenuating circumstances (death, disaster, internship clashes, etc.) which would have forced the student to withdraw from the module, outside of the stipulated time.
4.	The student is required to put his/her situation in writing to the Registrar through the Student Relations Office for consideration at the College/Faculty Student Academic Affairs Committee (C/FSAAC).
5.	Having thoroughly reviewed the student's case, if C/FSAAC considers the student’s requests favourably, then they would submit this recommendation to the Student Relations Office, which would make a written submission to the Chief Business & Finance Officer within the Division of Finance & Business Services, for consideration regarding the student’s fees. 
6.	Please note that the Division of Finance & Business Services reserves the right to deny any such recommendation from the College/Faculty Board, if the decision from the Board is deemed unreasonable or is not in keeping with University policies and procedures.

WITHDRAWAL – SHORTCOURSES 
1.	For short courses, withdrawals should be done within the first 15 working days after the official start date of the course, in order to be eligible for a refund.
2.	Withdrawal requests received after the first 15 working days after the official start date of the course are not eligible for a refund.

PAYMENT DISBURSEMENTS FOR BOOKS, LEARNING DEVICES, ALLOWANCE, E T C . 

The University recognizes that students may receive additional financial support as a function of their sponsorship to cover non-tuition expenses such as books, computer, tablets, boarding, etc. 


REFUND PAYMENT SCHEDULE (TUITION) – DUE TO WITHDRAWAL

Date request has been received by Faculty/College/School Office

Programme withdrawal for a Semester:
• 0–10 working days from commencement of classes – 90% of Tuition
• 11–25 working days from commencement of classes – 60% of Tuition
• Beyond 25 working days after the commencement of classes – *No refund

Students in Courses of Study Lasting Less than 15 Weeks:
• Within 5 working days from commencement of classes – 90% of Tuition & Exam
• 6–15 working days from commencement of classes – 60% of Tuition & Exam
• Beyond 15 working days from commencement of classes – *No refund


* A student is not entitled to a refund beyond 15 and 25 working days after the commencement of classes, as per table above.  The student is therefore liable for all outstanding fees as per module selection and would be required to settle fees in accordance with the terms and conditions of the fee payment plan.

Where a donor wishes to provide non-tuition school related financial assistance to a sponsored /scholarship student; a one-off disbursement to a student per academic year. N.B. Only, one disbursement will be done per academic year; as the University is not a financial institution and therefore cannot do multiple third party disbursements.  The Scholarship donor is required to: 

•	write a formal letter to the University expressly indicating their intention to cover a non-tuition, school related expense.
•	indicate the purpose for which the allowance is being paid (eg. Learning device, books, travelling, food etc.) 
•	indicate the name(s) and ID numbers of the students for which the payment of allowance is intended
•	Indicate the amount to be allocated to each awardee
•	remit payment in full to the University to cover the identified expenses

To facilitate the disbursement of the funds, the Scholarship Office is required to: 
•	prepare a written request for the disbursement along with disbursement sheet 
•	Attach the supporting documents (Donor Letter, Proof of funds remitted to UTech and invoice from supplier of goods, where applicable).
•	The memo and supporting documents are to be submitted to the Snr. Accountant, Payroll/Payables; through the Director of Student Financing and the CBFO; in order for the cheque payment to be processed.

STUDENTS’ UNION PERFORMANCE BASED REWARD (PBR) 
The Students’ Union Council members receive an incentive at the end of each academic year; which is paid as a percentage of tuition fees for that year. This incentive is referred to as the  Performance -Based Reward (PBR). 
The PBR is paid after a performance evaluation process which would determine if the Council member is eligible for the PBR based on the result of the performance review. 
The PBR is paid by cheque to the individual Council Member and is therefore processed as follows: 

1.	A written request for payment is sent by the Assistant Registrar, Student Services to the Snr. Director, Business and Asset Administration for approval.
2.	Following receipt of approval from the Snr. Director, the documents are then sent to the Snr. Accountant, Payroll/Payables for the cheque to be generated.

PERFORMANCE BASED REWARD (PBR) CONDITIONALITIES

In the administration of the PBR, the following important conditions should be noted: 
1.	Based on the revised provision of the Students Union policy approved in 2014, the PBR is not to be “applied to Council Members Tuition or Boarding Fees” therefore the following guidelines obtain:
2.	The PBR is not to be processed through the Students Receivables Department as this would then require the payment to be offset against tuition fees.
3.	A written commitment outlining eligibility for the PBR cannot be used to offset fee payment requirements for the Enrolment Commitment Fee, Financial Clearance or associated fee payment penalties/charges.
4.	Each Council Representative is paid directly and therefore on receipt of the payment may use the funds to settle any outstanding debt to the University and or prepay for expected fees in the future.
5. Where fees are outstanding for Student Council Members they will be subjected to the usual charges and penalties as applicable to the rest of the student population.
6. Where a Student Union Council Representative is a recipient of another award/grant from the University whether by way of scholarship or sponsorship in a given academic year the total paid by the University for both awards/grants will not exceed the total that the Council member was charged for fees for that academic year. 


KEEPING YOUR STUDENT CONTACT INFORMATION CURRENT 
It is the responsibility of each student to ensure that the University is kept abreast of his/her current contact information as the University will need to communicate with students regularly about important student matters.     
1. Any correction to your data must be done online before completing the enrolment procedure.
2. Ensure that at all times the University has your most current telephone numbers, email addresses and term/mailing address.
3. Correspondence sent to a student via the postal service, using the address on the University’s system will be deemed to be received even if the student has changed his/her address.
4. Once the University has sent out a communiqué to the students via the Students’ Portal, it is deemed that the students are in receipt of such communiqué, irrespective of whether the students have checked their portal.
Therefore, it is the responsibility of the each student to check e:Vision and his/her mailbox daily, especially prior to payment deadlines and the deadline for the issuing of exam cards. 

FINANCIAL AID 
The University recognizes that many students experience significant financial challenges and are unable to adequately fund their tertiary education. Consequently, the University offers a wide range of financial support services through the Financial Aid Office in the form of: 
• Scholarships
• Student Welfare Grants 
• Earn and Study Programme



SCHOLARSHIPS 
Scholarships and Bursaries are awarded annually, mainly to Jamaican nationals studying at the undergraduate levels. However, there are specific scholarships that are available to other Caribbean nationals and a small number of scholarships available at the postgraduate level. 
The application period for scholarships opens in May each year and closes on the following date (unless otherwise stated):  
1. June 30 – Scholarships offered to returning students in Years 2 to 4
2. July 31– Scholarships offered to new students in Year 1

PROCEDURES FOR APPLYING FOR SCHOLARSHIPS 
Students may apply for ALL scholarships for which they are eligible based on their programme level. In order to apply, students are required to complete an application form (available online at www.utech.edu.jm); Click on Admissions/Student Financing/Forms/Scholarships) and submit the following documents: 
1. Progress Report(s) or CSEC/CAPE Certificates for first year students
2. Records of extra-curricular activities (both on and off campus)
3. Copy of a photo ID (school ID for returning students, Driver’s License or Passport etc. for new students)

STUDENT WELFARE GRANTS 
The Student Welfare Unit manages a small fund that is derived from the combined welfare contributions which form part of the miscellaneous fees paid annually by each student. Under the guidance of the Student Welfare Committee, these funds are re-directed to assist the University’s neediest students. All enrolled students who contribute to the Student Welfare Fund by the payment of their annual miscellaneous fees are eligible to apply for student welfare assistance in the following areas:  
• Tuition
• Books & Supplies
• Lunch Subsidy
• Transportation (JUTC Bus Passes)
• Medical Expense
• Boarding/Rent
• Teaching Practice Expenses
1. Student Welfare Grants are usually paid to offset the payment of school-related expenses but, in exceptional circumstances; the grant can be paid directly to the student. 
2. Enrolled students at all levels, pursuing an undergraduate course of study are eligible to apply.
3. Applications for lunch assistance are accepted at the start of the academic year, between August and September; while applications for all other forms of assistance can be submitted throughout the rest of the academic year (October to July).
4. Applicants must clearly demonstrate need, which should be substantiated in writing through a Reference Affidavit by a Minister of Religion, Justice of the Peace, Lecturer or Senior Manager at the University.
5. Application forms are available online at www.utech.edu.jm .
6. Decisions on grant awards are made by the Student Welfare Committee which is chaired by the Student Welfare Officer and is supported by the University’s Counselors, Health Care Administrator and Student Services Managers.
7. Recommendations for assistance can also be made by the Director of Student Financing and the Student Financial Services Office but still require the ratification of the Student Welfare Committee.
8. The maximum amount which can be
awarded as grant assistance for an academic year for a single applicant is as follows:
• Grant assistance – $40,000.00 per academic year
• Lunch Subsidy (NCB Keycard cash) -
$5000 per month / $250.00 per day
• Transportation Subsidy (Bus Pass) -
$4,000 per month / $200.00 per day


EARN AND STUDY 
Employment is provided for students on campus through the Earn and Study Programme. Student workers are recruited and assigned to various Departments, Faculties and Colleges across the University and work is scheduled to avoid conflict with the students’ academic performance. Students employed on the programme gain valuable work experience as an important complement to their academic pursuits. They also have the opportunity to earn additional income to assist with school related expenses. Earn and Study operates through two programmes: (i) the Regular Programme and (ii) the Expanded Programme. Together, these two student work programmes allow for greater accessibility and reach to a wider cross-section of students who are in need of campus employment. 

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE REGULAR EARN & STUDY PROGRAMME 
1. All enrolled unemployed students within a given academic year are eligible to partici-
pate in the Earn & Study Programme. However, in order to ensure greater accessibility, students are only allowed to work in one of the two employment batches each year.  

2. Students interested in participating in the Earn and Study Programme may choose one of the following options:
• Option 1 – Working in semesters 1 and 2, where students are allowed to work 25hrs per work / 50 hours per fortnight. Payment is made on a fortnightly basis.
• Option 2 – Working in the summer session, where students are allowed to work a 40-hour work. Payment is made on a monthly basis.

3. Within any given academic year, students who work in the semesters are not allowed to work in the Summer Session; and vice versa.

4. First year students are NOT allowed to work in semesters 1 and 2, of their first year but may work in the summer session of that first year.

5. Final year students are NOT allowed to work in semesters 1 and 2 of their last year; but may work in the summer session of that final year.

6. Students on Academic Probation (GPA of2.0 or below) will not be employed on the Regular Earn & Study Programme as they  2 0 2 4
will need to focus on improving their academic performance in order to maintain their studentship.  

7. For the Regular Programme, students do not get to select where they are placed but all efforts will be made to ensure that there is a best fit for placements taking into account the students’ experience, skills and the Department’s needs.

8. However, a student is not disadvantaged due to lack of experience or qualification as the aim of the Regular Programme is to expose students to the world of work and to provide that desired experience which will assist them once they have completed their studies.

9. The application period for the Regular Earn & Study Programme are as follows:
• Semesters I and II – August of each year
• Summer Session – April of each year

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE EXPANDED EARN & STUDY PROGRAMME 
1. All enrolled unemployed students are eligible to participate in the Earn & Study Programme. 
2. However, placement on the expanded programme is dependent on a student’s availability since this programme usually requires students to work well beyond the 25 hours a week required for the Regular Programme.
3. Often  the required work hours are between 8:00 and 4:00 and so an ideal candidate for the Expanded Programme should not be carP’8Prying the full credit load; but should instead be enrolled on modules which equate to part-time studies. 
4. For the Expanded Programme, students do not get to select where they are placed. Placements are done based on the specific needs of the Department in an attempt to achieve the right job fit with the skills and experience that the receiving Department needs.
5. Students at all programme levels are able to work and there are no restrictions on the employment period for a student within each academic year. This means that students are allowed to work unbroken throughout the academic year.
6. However, students on Academic Probation (GPA of 1.70 or below) will not be employed on the Expanded Earn & Study Programme as they will need to focus on improving their academic performance in order to maintain their studentship. 
7. There is no specific application period for the Expanded Programme as placement is done in response to the needs of the Departments which can be at any time throughout the year. Once a need is established, suitable candidates will be identified from the Earn & Study Skills Bank which is a reservoir of data from the Earn & Study applications.



