support_services_for_students_development.txt

 CARIBBEAN POISON INFORMATION
 NETWORK (CARPIN)
 The Regional Nerve Centre of the Caribbean 
Poison Information Network, a multi-sectorial 
initiative, is located in the Drug Information 
Service (DIS) in the College of Health Sciences 
on the ground floor. The initiative is the result 
of ten (10) years of collaboration among 
several stakeholders in the health and 
education sec-tors.  The network is managed 
by a committee of representatives from several 
entities, and was officially launched on Friday, 
May 13, 2005 during the inaugural Poison 
Prevention Week. 
CARPIN is actively involved in educating stu
dents within the School in poison prevention 
strategies and accessing information on poison 
prevention. The Drug Information Service Unit 
which shares office with CARPIN has been 
joined as a unit to carry out the mission of the 
School of Pharmacy. 

MISSION 
We are committed to: 
• preventing poisonings through public
 education
 • providing poison information to all clients
 in a timely manner
 • advocating for policies that will protect the
 health and welfare of the most vulnerable
 and at risk populations to poisoning
 • working with stakeholders to build 
regional cooperation in poison prevention
 and management.
 Services are available during the following 
hours: 
• Monday to Friday        8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. 
The services can be accessed at the University 
Hospital of the West Indies (UHWI) Accident and 
Emergency department after 4:00 pm on week
days, weekends and holidays. 

Contact Information 
Telephone: (876) 927-1680-8 ext 2300/ 
(876) 927-1620 ext 2500
 Toll Free: 1-888-POISONS/1888-764-7667
 Fax: (876) 927-1699
 E-mail:  carpin@utech.edu.jm

CO-OPERATIVE EDUCATION 
Co-operative Education is one of the Univer
sity’s flagship programmes geared towards pro
moting our graduates’ work-readiness.  The 
programme facilitates structured integration of
classroom learning with relevant on-the-job 
work experiences which are related to the stu
dents’ course of study and career goals.

UTech, Ja. is committed to ensuring that its stu
dents gain practical and professional exposure 
in real work settings, thus improving their mar
classroom learning with relevant on-the-job 
work experiences which are related to the stu
dents’ course of study and career goals.  

UTech, Ja. is committed to ensuring that its stu
dents gain practical and professional exposure 
in real work settings, thus improving their mar
ketability and academic motivation, as well as 
facilitating a better understanding of career 
choices and goals and workplace culture, 
among other things. Co-operative Education 
modules (also called Internship, Work Experi
ence, Practicum, Professional Practice) are gen
erally made available to students in their 
second through to final year of study and form 
a mandatory component of most courses of 
study (including graduate courses). Students 
may however participate in the programme 
voluntarily. The Co-operative Education Unit 
falls under the Office of Teaching and Learning, 
Academic Affairs Division. The Unit works along 
with all Schools offering  Co-operative Educa
tion modules, in providing quality industry 
experience. To this end, the Unit assists with 
the recruitment/engagement of employers, 
direct placement of students, preparation of 
students for industry engagement and 
supervision of students while on engagement.  
Furthermore, within each School there is a Co
operative Edu-cation Coordinator who, with 
support from the Unit, coordinates placements 
and monitors  students’ performance while on 
the job. For additional information on the 
Programme,  students are encouraged to visit 
the website at: http://www.utech.edu.jm/
 academics/aca-demics/cooped, visit their 
School/Faculty Office or visit the Unit located 
on St. Kitts Close (across from Lillian’s 
Restaurant) Mondays to Fridays 8:00 a.m.– 
4:00p.m.  Additional contact infor-mation is as 
follows: Telephone: (876) 927-1680-8 
ext2820/3536 E-mail: sjunor@utech.edu.jm; 
ced@utech.edu.jm


CYNTHIA SHAKO EARLY CHILDHOOD 
EDUCATION & DAY CARE CENTRE 

The Cynthia Shako Early Childhood Centre 
offers exceptional day care services to children 
3 months to 3 years in a stimulating, nurturing 
and caring environment. The Centre operates 
under the supervision of the College of Health 
Sciences and is open from 7:30 a.m. to 6:00 
p.m., Monday to Friday.

AFTERCARE PROGRAMME 
After care services are provided for children 
ranging from 3 to 8 years old. Children enrolled 
in the aftercare programme are offered assis
tance with homework as well as other age 
appropriate and developmental activities. 

SUMMER PROGRAMME 
The Centre hosts an annual summer pro
gramme catering to children 4–10 years old. 
This summer programme is available to the 
general public. 
Our programme is based on learning through 
themes, which incorporates all the devel
opmental domains as guided by the Jamaican 
Early Childhood curriculum. 
Essentially, the overarching goal of the Centre is 
to positively and systematically influence the 
development of each child within our care, 
while allowing all parents/guardians to con
tinue their education and carry out their duties 
with confidence.

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY 
SERVICE AND DEVELOPMENT 
The Community Service Programme (CSP 1001) 
is a mandatory forty-five (45) hour, one-credit 
module which comprises five (5) contact hours 
in the classroom and forty (40) community 
service hours out in the field. These forty (40) 
contact hours must be completed at an 
approved agency agreed on by the CSP tutor or 
the Community Service Department at the Uni
versity of Technology, Jamaica (UTech, Ja). 
Students should register for the module in 
semesters one, two, or three of their first or  
second year but they must complete it in the 
semester in which they have registered. 
All students who enrolled in the module before 
the academic year 2022/23 are required to 
complete and submit all outstanding assess
ments during semester one of the 2022/23 aca
demic year. For further information, please visit 
http://www.utech.edu.jm/services/community
services/index.html 

JAMAICA VALUES AND ATTITUDES 
PROGRAMME (JAMVAT) 
Students may apply to participate in the 
Jamaica Values and Attitudes Programme  
(JAMVAT) of the National Youth Service through 
the Department of Community Service.  In this 
programme students carry out 200 hours of 
community service work and in return have 
30% of their tuition fees for that year paid by 
JAMVAT. Application forms can be downloaded
from www.nysjamaica.org, completed and sub
mitted to the Department to be checked and 
routed to JAMVAT.  

The Department is located on the ground floor 
of the Student Services Building.  
Call 876-927-1680 extensions 2050, 2343 
or2253 or 876-702-4536 or e-mail: 
paulton.gordon@utech.edu.jm.  

GRADUATE STUDENTS’ LOUNGE 
The University has established a lounge for 
graduate students. The Lounge is equipped 
with workstations for  computers, a relaxation 
area, restrooms, and a kitchenette. The lounge 
is adjacent to the Admissions and Enrolment, 
building. 

INTEGRATED STUDENT  
ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM (ISAS) 

UTech, Ja. has a state-of-the-art Integrated  
Student Administration System (ISAS). A major 
feature of this system is e:Vision, which can be 
accessed via the Internet from UTech’s website 
at www.utechjamaica.edu.jm. 

e:Vision is an online tool that students must 
use in order to facilitate their academic journey 
through the University. Students need to 
ensure that they keep abreast of the “Calendar 
of Events” and “e-Notice Board” on the portal, so 
as to complete the relevant exercises within the 
allotted time. 

eVision will facilitate the following activities:

1. Pre-enrolment for returning students (specialisation/major-minor selection)
2. Selecting University and/or School Electives
3. Enrolling online
4. Updating online curriculum vitae
5. Updating personal/favourite links
6. Selecting payment plan
7. Viewing:
   a. Electronic notices and bulletins
   b. Payment schedules/fee breakdown
   c. Provisional module results
   d. Provisional course-work results
   e. Provisional Re-do results
   f. Provisional transcript results
   g. Account balances
   h. Flexible module selection/scheduling (semesterized students)
   i. Personalized class timetables (semesterized students)
   j. Personalized exam timetables
   k. Career Placement applications (final year students)

The following activities will be available on eVision in the near future:
• Online application
• Online payment

ACCESSING E:VISION 
e:Vision is accessible anywhere in the world, 
once you have access to a computer with an 
internet connection. It can be accessed by  
following the steps below: 
• Click on the browser icon on your desktop
 or in the Start menu
 • In the address bar, type www.utechja
maica.edu.jm
 • Click on the ‘Student Portal’ link at the top
 right section of the page
 • Click on the ‘Log-in to UTech Portal here’ 
link

REGISTERING AND ENROLLING ONLINE 
In order to begin and complete your registra
tion and enrolment, you are expected to make 
some payments and receive financial clearance. 
From the Home Page go to your ‘Intray’ and a 
message will be seen with an action/link 
labelled “Select your modules.”  After you have 
clicked on that link, your online enrolment pro
cess will begin. Once you have confirmed your 
module selections and received financial clear
ance, return to the ‘Intray’ and click the action 
link” Click here to Enrol.” After completing each 
step, click on the “Next” buttons until you have 
reached the final page and your registration will 
be complete.

E :VISION CONTENT 
The “Home” tab has: 
• Portal Options – change password; change
 security question and answer; access email information
 • Intray – enrol online; check incoming
 messages
 • Personal links – add favourite links
 • Upcoming Events – view University’s
 Calendar of Events
 • e - Notice Board – view electronic notices
 and bulletins
 • Calendar & Search

The “Student” tab has: 
• Student Details – personal details
 • Student Actions – choose Electives online
 and view module information
 • Your Academic Information – view pro
visional coursework and module results
 • Student’s Reports – view provisional
 transcript and other reports
 • Your Fee Information – account payments
 • Useful Links
 • Advisor Information – view details on
 assigned academic advisor
 • Career and Placements information

EMAIL SERVICE 
The Student Email Service is provided by Micro
soft Live@edu. This service is web-based and 
can be accessed at 
https://outlook.com/utech.edu.jm 

How to Sign In with Live@edu for UTech  
Student Email 

SIGN IN! A Live@Edu email account is automati
cally created for prospective students upon
payment of the Enrolment Commitment Fee. 
Accounts are also created for registered stu
dents. Sign in today to activate your account! 

CHECK REGULARLY! The University will use this 
email address to send you important notices 
about your registration, course enrolment, 
financial aid etc.  

LOGIN ID and PASSWORD:  Your Windows Live 
ID is your firstnamemiddleinitiallastname@ 
students.utech.edu.jm  

Your initial password is your birth date in the 
format YYYYMMDD.  
Example: A birth date of April 1, 1983 is 
19830401 
YOUR UTech EMAIL ADDRESS: format is: 
firstnamemiddleinitiallastname@ 
students.utech.edu.jm 

IMPORTANT TO KNOW: 
• The service is supported by the Internet
 Explorer, Firefox and Chrome browsers.
 • You will need an alternate e-mail address
 in case you forget your UTech Student
 Email password and need a reminder. If
 you don’t have one, hotmail.com,
 yahoo.com and gmail.com all offer free
 email accounts

WIRELESS AND WIRED CONNECTIVITY (WIFI) 
The need to access posted assignments by way 
of the Student Integrated Administration Sys
tem (ISAS), Library Information Management 
System (LIMS), and other on-line resources has 
become more important as students acquire 
their own personal laptops and thereby 
become less dependent on using the computer 
laboratories. Wireless access is currently avail
able in areas that are mainly used by students. 
These are: 
• Calvin McKain Library
 • Caribbean School of Architecture (CSA)
 • School of Computing and Information
 Technology (SCIT)
 • Alfred Sangster Auditorium
 • School of Hospitality and Tourism
 Management (SHTM)
 • Faculty of Education and Liberal Studies 
(FELS)
 • College of Health Sciences (COHS)
 • The Gazebo in front of SCIT (near the
 Administration Building)
 • All student dormitories
 The WiFi signals spread sufficiently to service 
the general areas used by students. Wireless 
access is also found in several classrooms and 
lecture theatres.


JOAN DUNCAN SCHOOL OF  
ENTREPRENEURSHIP, ETHICS AND 
LEADERSHIP (JDSEEL) 
The vision of JDSEEL is the creation of a nation 
that is vibrant, dynamic, ethical and bubbling 
with excitement of new business ventures, cre
ating employment for all while helping persons 
achieve their dreams. 
Its mission is to offer students higher education 
pathways into creating new business ventures 
and to deliver entrepreneurship, business, and 
professional education of national and inter
national standards while contributing to the  
economic development of Jamaica and the 
Caribbean region. In doing so, the school will 
undertake focused and relevant research, 
which will make a major contribution to the 
understanding of and  practice in, the world  
of entrepreneurship, small business and  
management. 
A Bachelor of Science degree is offered in Entre
preneurship which covers university core sub
jects, as well as others such as Entrepreneurial 
Behaviour, Project Management for the Entre
preneur, Entrepreneurship and Digital Com
merce among others, geared towards 
encouraging and strengthening entrepreneu
rial pursuits.   
JDSEEL also offers professional courses for the 
Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) in 
the areas of Accounting, Marketing Planning, 
Business Plan Writing and so on. These courses
are geared towards small business owners, as 
well as corporate clients who want to improve 
their skills. 

THE BUSINESS CLINIC 
This provides varied services to businesses 
which require short term contacts for assistance 
in general business development.  Students 
from across the university may become 
involved in providing services with the  
guidance of a lecturer. We provide services 
such as Market Research and Business Plan  
writing. 

Our main target is the Micro Small and Medium 
Enterprises (MSME) sector. 

THE LANGUAGE TEACHING AND 
RESEARCH CENTRE 
The Language Teaching and Research Centre is 
located in Room 8A12 in the Faculty of Educa
tion and Liberal Studies. An initiative of the 
School of Humanities and Social Sciences in the 
Faculty of Education and Liberal Studies, the 
Language Teaching and Research Centre (LTRC) 
aims to deliver strategic interventions for lan
guage learning.  The Centre supports the Uni
versity’s language teaching and learning needs 
through research and multimedia resource sup
port for modules in academic writing, com
munication arts and technology, English, 
French, Japanese and Spanish. Resources for 
other humanities and social science modules
 e.g. philosophy and ethics are also available in
 the Centre. The Centre is also directly respon
sible for the English Language Proficiency Test
 which is a prerequisite for some students enter
ing the University.
 The LTRC offers a facility for self-directed, inde
pendent study but users are able to benefit 
from the guidance of a facilitator. Students 
needing specialized assistance in language 
learning should make appointments. 

MISSION: 
• To encourage, nurture and otherwise facili
tate the highest levels of proficiency in
 verbal and written language use within
 the University community.
 • To spearhead enquiry into and academic
 engagement with issues of language use
 within the University community and in
 the wider national context through
 research, speaker’s fora, colloquia and
 other relevant modalities.
 To make appointments, visit the Centre during 
the following hours:  
Monday–Friday: 9:00 am–12:00 noon and  
1:00 pm–4:00 pm 

SERVICES OFFERED: 
Customized tutorials for students, the Lan
guage Challenge, translation of documents, 
proofreading and editing, training seminars 
and workshops in business communication and 
consultations by appointment.

MISSION: 
• To encourage, nurture and otherwise facili
tate the highest levels of proficiency in
 verbal and written language use within
 the University community.
 • To spearhead enquiry into and academic
 engagement with issues of language use
 within the University community and in
 the wider national context through
 research, speaker’s fora, colloquia and
 other relevant modalities.
 To make appointments, visit the Centre during 
the following hours:  
Monday–Friday: 9:00 am–12:00 noon and  
1:00 pm–4:00 pm 
SERVICES OFFERED: 
Customized tutorials for students, the Lan
guage Challenge, translation of documents, 
proofreading and editing, training seminars 
and workshops in business communication and 
consultations by appointment. 

PERSONNEL: 
Teaching Assistant:  876-927-1680, Ext. 2447

LIBRARY SERVICES 
INFORMATION RESOURCES 
The Calvin McKain Library offers a wide range 
of information resources and services to stu
dents and faculty in support of teaching, learn
ing and research. These resources include:  
• Print book and journal collection of
 135,436 books and 59 titles respectively. In
 addition, access is available to more than
 58,000 journal titles through 19 online
 resources covering approximately 83 data
bases. There are also 1,530 videos, DVDs,
 CD ROMs and audio tapes, including the
 Art and Architecture special collection.
 Pamphlets, newspapers, government and
 private sector publications, such as the
 PAHO Collection are also part of the
 library’s resources.
 • A Reserved Materials Collection, located
 in the Client Services Division, consists of
 textbooks and other resources available for
 4-hour loan. Materials in the Caribbean
 Collection are available for a similar loan
 period. The Reference Librarian is located
 in the Caribbean Reading Room and pro
vides assistance with research, inter-library 
loan and document delivery services

 • The Archives houses some of the historical
 records of the University.
 • The Instructional Media Services Unit offers
 services such as video editing, conversion
 and duplication.

 FACILITIES 
The facilities comprise of: 
• Three (3) main reading rooms
 • Faculty Reading Room
 • The Multi-purpose Room
 • Graphics Lab
 • Audio-Visual Theatre
 • 24 Hour Reading Room/ Graduate Reading
 Room
 • Caribbean Collection/Periodicals Reading
 Room
 • Two Seminar Rooms
 • Cyber Lab
 • Video Studio

 SERVICE POINTS 
The Facilities also Include Service Points at the 
following locations:  
• Dome Street
 • Barnett Clinic
 • Slipe Pen Road
 • Faculty of The Built Environment Resource
 Unit
 • Drug Information Services (COHS)
 • Arthur Wint Drive (SOHS)

  USE OF CELLULAR PHONES AND MULTIMEDIA/MOBILE 
DEVICES IN THE CALVIN MCKAIN LIBRARY 
The use of cellular telephones and other 
devices SHOULD NOT disturb library users. 
Additionally, the recording of library materials 
using cellular or multimedia/mobile devices 
may contravene international copyright law. 
Therefore, such recordings are prohibited in the 
Calvin McKain Library.  

COMPUTER ACCESS 
Computer access is provided through a 28- 
station cyber lab and student kiosks in Reading 
Room 2, the Caribbean Reading Room and the 
24-hour reading room. All are equipped to
 facilitate research using online resources

  INFORMATION LITERACY SESSIONS 
Library sessions are held throughout each 
semester to enhance clients’ information- 
seeking skills and familiarize them with  
library resources and services. For further infor
mation contact: 876-970 5258 or visit our face
book page @ 
http://www.facebook.com/calvinmckainlibrary

GENERAL INFORMATION 
Detailed information about the collections, 
CALCAT (online catalogue), location of  
materials, borrowing privileges, other  
services provided, opening hours, rules and 
regulations is provided on the website 
www.utech.jamaica.edu.jm/library/index.htm 
and in the Library Handbook.  
All students, including those at off-campus 
locations, have borrowing and/or reading  
privileges. 

LEGAL ADVICE CENTRE 
The University of Technology, Jamaica, in  
keeping with its thrust as “the People’s Univer
sity”, committed to the expansion of access to 
service, scholarship and research, established 
the UTech, Ja. Legal Advice Centre  in July 2011 
to provide legal advice for members of the pub
lic who are socially, economically or otherwise  
disadvantaged.  

The UTech, Ja. Legal Advice Centre provides 
Faculty of Law undergraduate students, under 
the supervision of an Attorney-at-Law, with 
practical training and skills in a social justice 
context to meet the legal needs of the poor and 
disadvantaged. The free-of-cost services offered 
by the Centre include advising persons on how 
to handle legal, administrative and other prob
lems, referring persons to organizations which 
provide social and other services and rec
ommending the use of Alternative  
Dispute Resolution. 

The UTech, Ja. Legal Advice Centre currently  
operates from the Faculty of Law at the Papine 
campus on Monday, Wednesday and Friday 
from 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 

MEDICAL CENTRE 
The Medical Centre continues to provide qual
ity health care to the University Community. 

The team of health care professionals is multi-disciplinary and the following services are offered:
• Counselling
• Environmental & Occupational Health
• Family Planning
• General Medicine
• Medical Laboratory
• Referrals

Opening Hours:
Papine Campus
Monday–Friday:      8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m.
Saturday:          9:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m.
Contact Number: 876-927-1680-9, ext. 2466, 876-970-5466/702-3313
Appointment times at the Counselling Unit varies from the above

Western Campus
Monday–Friday:      8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
Selected Saturdays:   9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.
Contact Number: 876-927-1680-9, ext. 2724

Medical Laboratory Services
Service is available on weekdays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. – 3:45 p.m. Results of routine laboratory tests are usually available within 72 hours.

Emergency Services
Persons with life-threatening emergencies who visit the Health Centre receive supportive care and are then transferred via ambulance to the Accident & Emergency Department of the University Hospital of the West Indies.

ACCESSING MEDICAL SERVICES 
All users of the Medical Centre are required to 
make an appointment. You can reduce your 
wait time by scheduling your appointments 
from home. 
Userss are encouraged to follow the guide-lines 
outlined below to access medical services. 
• Email requests for medical reports, referrals
 or appointments to utech
medcentre@utech.edu.jm
 • Provide radiology (X-ray) and laboratory
 test entities with the email address to
 which diagnostic test results can be sent.
 • The email account will be manned by the
 medical team and feedback will be pro
vided within 72 hours.
 • Remember to include a telephone number
 for us to contact you.
 Your current health insurance and student iden
tification cards are necessary for each visit.


STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN 
All registered students are provided with a health 
insurance card which can be used at any health 
care provider. Please note that some pro-viders 
only accept cash/debit/credit cards as payments. 
If this occurs, ask for a signed receipt and claim 
form in order to make a claim against the health 
insurance plan provider. Major medical benefits 
are applicable in certain circumstances. 

There is a cost for services not covered by the 
health insurance plan however cash is not 
collected here. Payments are to be made at 
the Accounts Receivable Unit.

STUDENT REQUIREMENTS TO ACCESS 
AND PARTICIPATE IN CLINICAL 
ROTATIONS 
All students enrolled in health and allied health 
courses of study who are required to participate 
in clinical rotations within areas of the Ministry 
of Health must be fully immunized. 
Access to clinical sites will only be granted if 
immunization is current and covers the period 
of rotation. The Immunization schedule: 

The Immunization schedule: 
• Birth BCG
 • 6 weeks OPV, DPT/HepB/Hib (Pentavalent) 
• 3 months OPV, DPT/HepB/Hib
 • 5 months OPV, DPT/HepB/Hib
 • 12 months MMR
 • 18 months DPT, OPV boosters 
• 4–6 years DPT, OPV, MMR boosters
 All applicable students must have Mantoux test 
performed and results forwarded to: 
• The Medical Centre for Papine Campus
 students, or
 • The Western Campus Nursing Station – for
 Western Campus students.
 This test can be done at the National Chest  
Hospital, Barbican Road, Kingston 6 or at the 
St James Type 5 Health Centre, Creek Street,  
Montego Bay respectively.

MEDICALS FOR NEW STUDENTS 
All students being enrolled for the first time are 
required to complete and submit a medical either 
in-person to the Medical Centre electronically at 
• studentmedical@utech.edu.jm or
 • Western Campus Nursing Station or
 westerncampushealth@utech.edu.jm
 (for Western Campus students).

You will be given a receipt after in-person 
submission of the medical which is to be taken 
to the Safety and Security Department to obtain 
your student identification card. Electronic 
submissions will generate a message to guide 
completion of your student identification card.

OFFICE OF THE CUSTOMER SERVICE ADVOCATE
The Office of the Customer Service Advocate (OCSA) welcomes our undergraduate and graduate students. The Office is located on the third floor of the Main Administration Building and is responsible for developing and guiding a relevant customer service programme for the University. The Office seeks to ensure that the university’s customer service standards are developed and adhered to and plays a key role in establishing a culture of excellent customer service. The Office continues to employ a customer-centric approach to service by consistently encouraging a service-oriented culture to meet the needs of all our customers and stakeholders.

Below are some on-going activities and new achievements.

These include:
• The introduction of the University Call Centre which receives inbound calls through the switch board and Avaya telephone.
• The ongoing Net Promoter Score survey.
• Monitoring of customer service standards.
• Ongoing customer service training for all new and returning staff.
• Ongoing Mystery Shopping activities.
• Update of the university’s campus map.
(The map is located between the College of Business and Management and the Faculty of Education and Liberal Studies).

We are pleased to advise that, the lobby in the Main Administration Building is now open for your convenience, Monday to Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., during the semester and 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. during semester break.

In the event that you have a complaint, we encourage you to contact us. We look forward to hearing from you.

Additional Contact Information:
Telephone: (876) 970-5844/46/48/927-1680-8
Ext. 2844/4184/4180
Toll free: 1-888-991-513
Fax: (876) 977-4388
Website: www.utechjamacia.edu.jm
Email: customerserviceadvocate@utech.edu.jm

OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR ATTENDANCE AT SCHEDULED CLASSES

RESPONSIBILITY OF STUDENTS
• Students should attend all scheduled classes consistently, in order to ensure the best opportunity for optimum academic performance.
• Where absence is unavoidable for more than one class, the instructor should be notified.
• Students should be punctual for all classes.
• Class registers indicating the date should be signed by students in attendance for tutorials and laboratories. Registers should not be signed by proxy.
• If an instructor is not present for the first thirty (30) minutes of a class, without notifying the stu dents, then students may leave and a represen
tative from the class will then complete the TLPGs, then students may leave and a representative from the class will then complete the TLP-G 2 form indicating the instructor’s absence. This form will be submitted to the HOS/HOD/PD.

Students are to be self-directed in their approach to learning and in the pursuit of their course of study. Students should:
• attend classes consistently
• be punctual for classes
• do assigned readings and other assignments in preparation for class
• follow acceptable standards of dress and proper grooming
• participate in group assignments and projects
• not exhibit disruptive behaviour

PRINTERY/BINDERY
The Printery, located beside the Computer Lab, in the School of Information and Technology, is responsible for most internal publications, such as books, teaching manuals and other educational and informational materials developed and produced by Faculties and other units.

The Printery also offers the following services to students at cost:
• Digital colour and black-and-white printing and photocopying of documents such as projects and theses. These documents can be printed from e-mails (maximum print or copy size 11” x 17”)
• Binding (ring or hard bound)
• Repair and re-covering of text books.

SHELLY-ANN FRASER ASSESSMENT CENTRE FOR CHILDREN
The Shelly-Ann Fraser Assessment Centre for Children (SAFACC) – a unit within the School of Allied Health and Wellness, College of Health Sciences – was launched on Monday, December 10, 2012. The centre is located on the western end of UTech, Jamaica Papine campus, adjacent to the Cynthia Shako Early Childhood Education & Daycare Centre. SAFACC was established against the immense global recognition of the need to improve the assessment and management of children with exceptionalities. The Centre was named in tribute to Ms. Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce who graduated from UTech, Ja. with the Bachelor of Science degree in Child and Adolescent and Development. This tribute serves as an acknowledgement of her passion and commitment to working with children and to memorialize her contribution to the University and to Jamaica. In 2012 she was appointed the first University Ambassador of the University of Technology, Jamaica in recognition of her demonstrated significant interest and pride in the University as well as her high standards of integrity. In November 2016, she was conferred with the degree of Doctor of Laws, Honoris Causa.

The services currently offered by SAFACC include:
• Screening, assessment and intervention children 7 to 18 years old who may present with a range of psychological, emotional, social, educational/cognitive and developmental problems.
• Provision of individual and family counselling.
• Intervention for parents/guardians with understanding their children’s cognitive, emotional, developmental or social needs and how best to support them.

TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION CENTRE
TIC is a special unit of JBDCSEL and operates as the English speaking Caribbean’s first fully functional business incubator. The TIC has had a vast amount of exposure in business incubator internationally and is sought after as the local expert in this field in Jamaica and the wider Caribbean community.

The main functions of the Centre include the housing of entrepreneurs in twenty-five (25) office suites and four (4) light manufacturing bay units; as well as virtual tenancy for entrepreneurs who prefer to work from home. The facility provides a one-stop shop service through the provision of all business services inclusive of internet, telephony, meeting rooms, printing, copying and mail retrieval.

The incubator’s vision is to become the foremost centre for entrepreneurship development in Jamaica and the Caribbean, excelling in the delivery of services to our clients. The mission is to assist, monitor and encourage fledgling entrepreneurs to achieve targets that will enable them to graduate to a mature status, through the use of technology and innovation.

Recently, as stated earlier, UTech, Ja. Student Dev Studio was established for students with business interests. Students who apply to and qualify for the incubator information work with an experienced mentor/investor with like-minded people. The space is shared and offers the same environment as other incubated clients.

UTECH, JA. ALUMNI RELATIONS OFFICE
The UTech Alumni Relations Office is located in the main Administration Building of the Papine campus. The Office is the official link between the University and all graduates of CAST and UTech, Ja. In addition, the Alumni Relations Office provides support to all Alumni affiliates i.e. The Alumni Association, UTech; the Alumni Chapters which are the New York, South Florida, Ontario and United Kingdom Chapters; as well as Alumni Special Interest Groups (SIGS) related to the Pharmacy, Architecture, and the Faculty-Staff. The Alumni Relations Office also supports the work of the Colleges and Faculties in engaging their alumni, as well as supporting the work of the Student Services Department to develop well rounded University students, through participation in their various programmes and services e.g. Job Fair, Orientation, Graduation, Student Leaders’ Conference and the Employee Empowerment Programme.



  All graduates are encouraged to become members of the Alumni Association, UTech, Ja. and to participate as members of the Executive to guide the development of programmes and services of benefit to fellow graduates and the University, as well as to support events and initiatives of the Association as regular members. Through membership in the Alumni Association, UTech, Ja, graduates are afforded:
• Opportunities for networking with other alumni to facilitate personal, professional and business development;
• Rewarding mentor relationships with current UTech, Ja students;
• Use of the library and other facilities;
• Opportunities to influence changes in UTech’s policies to improve the University experience;
• Discounts at select stores

Of special note, is the University’s Mentoring Programme, which is a collaboration between the Student Services Department and the Alumni Relations Office. Students are encouraged to contact the Student Services Department to be assigned a mentor and benefit from the valuable insights and guidance by our cadre of mentors who have vast professional qualifications.

For more information on Alumni Relations services please contact Ms. Cheryll Messam, Alumni Relations Manager at email: utech.alumni@utech.edu.jm, phone: 876-970-5468.

Please visit our website: www.utechjamaica.edu.jm and our blog: www.utechjaalumni.wordpress.com and our facebook fan page: www.facebook.com/
castechutechalumni

UTECH, JA CENTRE FOR THE ARTS

The Centre for the Arts is situated in the heart of the campus. It is surrounded by the Caribbean Sculpture Park, the only open-air museum of its kind in the English-speaking Caribbean.

The Centre was established in 1998, with a mandate to help individuals unleash their creative energy towards living as the highest and the best of who they are, through an exposure to the arts. It focuses on cultural training and professional development and the promotion of the University’s cultural needs through the coordination of events and by providing performances for internal functions.

VISION:
The Centre for the Arts will be a nurturing and dynamic centre of excellence that becomes a hub that unearths and trains artistes in the production of academic, professional and artistic creation while fostering the evolving nature of arts and cultural heritage.

MISSION:
The mission of the Centre is to provide an arts platform where young people from all walks of life at the UTech, Jamaica as well as the widercommunity, including practitioners in the industry, are introduced to new and innovative training in the arts. It is a school that aids in the development of artists and artistes, new and experienced, by collaborating with professionals for academic, practical and relevant training.

PROGRAMMES OFFERED
The Centre offers a diverse range of disciplines, of which three are University electives. Each of the three contributes three (3) credits towards the completion of the degree programme at the University. The electives are online and face-to-face and are as follows:
• Drama and Theatre Arts
• Introduction to Dance
• Introduction to Music

In addition to electives, the Centre offers the following extra-curricular programmes:

DRAMA ENSEMBLE
Tuesday: 5:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m.
Introduction to drama allows students to gain knowledge of a wide cross section of theatre arts, in a detailed yet compact programme designed to cultivate a deeper appreciation of theatre/drama and its impact on culture, history and social development.

Students are introduced to acting and theatre, and voice and speech. Areas covered include:
• Transformation
• Storytelling & Improvisation
• Public performance
• Dramatic verse and much more

DANCE ENSEMBLE
Friday: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.

This course helps to extend the participant’s understanding of how the body responds to rhythm and in addition, to develop an appreciation for the tradition of dance as an international language.

The discipline gives students a basic knowledge of techniques in dance. Different genres of dance are explored to include traditional and contemporary forms. Students will be engaged as a professional performing ensemble at the university’s events.

UTECH, JAMAICA CHOIR
Wednesday: 6:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.
Thursday: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.

The programme encourages students to effectively use the voice, the most available musical instrument, to express their own culture and to explore the culture of others. It emphasizes the development of each student’s ability to sing well by providing relevant techniques, principles and practices.

Students gain meaningful exposure to:
• a repertoire of music from the Caribbean & Africa.
• a basic understanding of body parts that contribute to the production of quality sounds.
• the effective use of the voice as a vehicle for cultural expression.
• Students will be engaged as a professional performing ensemble at the university’s events.

VISUAL ARTS
Wednesday: 6:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.

Students are able to explore and express themselves through the various forms of fine and applied art. They are introduced to basic drawing via an understanding of the anatomy. This allows for a general feeling and understanding of the rudiments of drawing.

Participants are also taught photography and art appreciation through painting on canvas and other experimental techniques, all geared towards achieving a better understanding and knowledge of fine arts from a professional perspective.

DRUMMING ENSEMBLE
Friday: 5:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m.

In this discipline the areas explored include:
• The reproduction of different sound bases, open tone and tip tops from various areas of the drumhead.
• Timing and tempo (use of timelines, drum rhythm, basic beat system, cross rhythm).
• Hand techniques for dexterity and flexibility.
• Students will be engaged as a professional performing ensemble at the university’s events.
• Students also gain knowledge in polyrhythmic systems, drum rhythms of Jamaica and Africa – Dinki Mini, Kumina, Nyahbinghi, Ibo, Akum, Gahu, etc.

STEEL PAN
Wednesday: 6:00 p.m.–9:00 p.m.

Students are given a basic understanding of the techniques in playing the Steel pan. The programme teaches Introduction to Steel Pans, Introduction to Basic Rhythm and Tones, Sight Reading and Music Notation, Maintenance and basic chord progression.

As part of the UTech Steel Pan Ensemble, students develop a repertoire that includes Caribbean, Jamaican folk and popular music. Students will be engaged as a professional performing ensemble at the university’s events.

INSTRUMENTAL BAND
Monday: 5:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.

Students are taught different techniques in playing music, theory and musicianship, individually and as a group. They are also taught how to improvise using basic theory and techniques learnt.

As members of the UTech Instrumental Band, students develop a repertoire that includes the blues, Jamaican folk and popular music. Students will be engaged as a professional performing ensemble at the university’s events.

Visit the Centre for the Arts on UTech Ja website; find us on Facebook – Centre for the Arts, UTech Jamaica or follow us on Instagram and Twitter @CFA_UTECHJa to learn more about us and our services.

UTECH FOUNDATIONS
Two Foundations have been established as charitable organizations to support the University of Technology, Jamaica and its programmes.

The UTech Foundation in Jamaica was established in 1988 to promote academic excellence and has been providing extra-budgetary financial support to the University for scholarships to local students, financial aid, staff training and development, research and other special projects.

The American Foundation of the University of Technology, Jamaica (AFUTECH) established on March 10, 2004:
• supports institutions of higher learning with capital improvements, general operating expenses, provision of services or participation in joint undertakings.
• sponsors and supports scholarships for students in institutions of higher learning and operates exclusively for charitable and educational purposes.

Application forms for Foundation scholarships are available at the Financial Aid Office on the Papine campus.

UTECH ONLINE-BLENDED LEARNING
In its effort to increase flexible access to academic programmes and services, UTech, Ja. has been intensifying its use of various technology modalities to facilitate online-blended learning. The aim is to deliver lectures and course materials through various links or combinations of the web, videos, podcasts, video-conferencing and other interactive media, while enriching face-to-face and laboratory contact sessions within the physical classroom. Several courses of study will also be delivered fully online throughout the Caribbean and beyond.

All first year students will have the opportunity to pursue selected General Education modules in either a blended or completely online format through the virtual learning space ‘UTechOnline’ (https://utechonline.utech.edu.jm). In keeping with the sensitization thrust, students will ultimately be able to select modules for delivery that are most convenient and suitable for their learning styles. These new arrangements will ensure equitable access to individual computers/laptops and internet bandwidth. Students will also be expected to participate inorientation sessions to the learner support systems. The timetable and other details relating to the launch of specific pilot initiatives will be communicated at the school level.

UTECH ONLINE LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (LMS)
UTechOnline is the University’s official virtual learning space, which is powered by the Moodle Learning Management System (LMS).

It is home to an array of modules and courses of study in various formats ranging from simple web-assisted and web-enhanced features to more interactive blended, hybrid or fully online delivery. UTechOnline can be accessed at
https://utechonline.utech.edu.jm

As a registered student, your official UTech login ID and Password will provide access to UTechOnline. Your official UTech email address will be required also to access this learning space, so a transition period is being arranged for all students who currently utilize other email addresses to create one. More details regarding the access to UTechOnline will be provided in special online orientation documents.

All online students are expected to have access to a computer with the following minimum technical specifications:

Minimum Hardware Requirements for UTechOnline
• 2 GB of RAM
• 1 GB of free disk space
• Broadband Internet connection (56 Kbit/sec or faster)
• Sound card with speakers and microphone

Minimum Software Requirements for UTechOnline

Operating Systems (OS)
– Windows XP Operating System (or better) for Windows-based computers
– OS X for Macintosh computers

Browser Option and Requirements
– Mozilla Firefox 15 or later
– Google Chrome 22 or later (http://www.google.com/chrome)
– MS Internet Explorer 9.0 or later – a download is available from Internet Explorer site.

Other Support Features Required
• JavaScript must be enabled
(http://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/javascript-settings-for-interactive-web-pages#enabling-and-disabling-javascript)
• Cookies must be enabled
(http://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences)
• Pop-up blocker must be turned off
(http://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/pop-blocker-settings-exceptions-troubleshoot-popup-blocker-settings)
• Mozilla Firefox Adobe Acrobat Reader (http://get.adobe.com/reader/)
• Adobe Flash (http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/)
• Adobe Shockwave (http://get.adobe.com/shockwave/)
• Java runtime environment
• VLC player

UTECH PHARMACY
The pharmacy is managed and operated by registered pharmacists with the assistance of pharmacy students and a Pharmacy Technician. It is a legally operated facility that is registered by the Pharmacy Council of Jamaica.

The objectives of the pharmacy are to:

facilitate the learning process of 3rd-year pharmacy students, giving them real hands-on experience; and

provide pharmaceutical services to the UTech, Ja. communities.

The pharmacy carries a wide range of prescription drugs, non-prescription drugs, toiletries, first aid supplies, multi-vitamins, contraceptives, cough and cold preparations and much more. It also has an up-to-date computerized programme for processing prescriptions.

Some of the insurance schemes include Sagicor, Medecus and National Health Fund (NHF). All Major Credit Cards and Debit Cards are also accepted.

The pharmacy gives counseling and consultation regarding prescriptions, drug-related problems and other concerns. Please feel free to talk to them.

Opening Hours:
Monday–Thursday:  10:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Friday:        9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.

Contact Information:
Contact Line: 876-970-2492, Extension: 2301

UTECH REHABILITATION CENTRE FOR CHILDREN WITH EXCEPTIONALITIES
The Centre, is governed by the College of Health Sciences (COHS) School of Allied Health & Wellness (SAHW). Daily rehabilitative and therapeutic care is offered to severe residents of Sophie’s Place Gordon Town a Mustard Seed Communities Apostolate. Each child is assessed and placed on an Individual Programme Plan to promote their ability through activities for their daily living skills in allowing each child to reach his/her maximum potential.

The Centre is a shared space with the Shelly-Ann Fraser Assessment Centre. We embrace the future growth and development of the University of Technology, Jamaica and Mustard Seed Communities and network with external agencies.

ACADEMIC SUPPORT
The UTech, JA Rehabilitation Centre provides 
opportunities for education, training and 
research in the field of Disabilities Studies. The 
Centre serves as a practicum site for BSc. stu
dents in the Child and Adolescent Devel
opment Course of Study and facilitates practical 
training and research opportunities for local, regional and international students of other 
courses upon request. 

TEACHING & LEARNING 
Lecturers and other staff of the college vol
untarily facilitate training to the Mustard Seed 
Caregivers through Long Distance Learning 
(LDL). 

VOLUNTEERS 
First year students from all faculty may com
plete their Community Service Programme 
(CSP1001) of forty (40) at the Center. Each stu
dent will receive training related to attitudes 
towards persons with disabilities and a certifi
cate upon satisfactorily completing their hours. 

UTECH, JA. LICENCE FOR 
MARIJUANA RESEARCH 
The University of Technology, Jamaica (UTech) 
received a licence on May 14, 2015 officially 
authorizing the cultivation of marijuana for  
scientific research. The licence was presented  
at a special ceremony to mark a day of celebra
tions at UTech, Ja Papine campus dubbed,  
“Medical Marijuana Integration Day.” 
The College of Health Sciences is the Univer
sity’s focal point for this initiative. Since 2015, 
UTech, Ja. has attracted national and inter
national attention. Several partnerships have 
been established with growers and researchers 
as the University strengthens its capacity to 
take full advantage of the potential  opportunties to flow from research into medicinal 
Cannabis Sativa. 

WELLNESS CENTRE 
The Wellness Centre was established at the  
University of Technology  Jamaica, College of 
Health Sciences in 1999 based on research 
results conducted by lecturers on the nutrition 
profile and the development of chronic non
communicable diseases among the University 
population. 

Among its activities are: 
• Services: Registered Dietitians/ Nutrition
ists  provide nutrition counselling and life
style enhancing programmes in nutrition,
 weight management, fitness, sports, stress
 reduction and other related services.
 • Training: Dietetics and Nutrition students
 are trained in the art of science of nutrition
 counselling.  The Centre also acts as a pre
ceptor site for externship students.
 • Events: Provides resources for health fairs
 and research expos.
 • Research: Engages in research related to
 nutrition

The Wellness Centre is located at the COHS 
Ground Floor.  We accept medical referrals or 
self-referrals and appointments made by  
contacting the Administrative staff at the COHS 
office at 876-927-1680-8, Extn 2315. Email: 
cwalker@utech.edu.jm