examination_or_refund_or_statement_of_fees_or_registration.txt

EXAMINATIONS 
Ques. 27: If my account has an outstanding  balance, will UTech, Ja give me the opportunity to write my final exams? 
Ans.: 	Once you are a fully registered student you will be able to sit your exams, even if you have a balance on your account.  
Ques. 28: I paid my fees in full but no modules are printed on my exam card. Will I be allowed to write the exams? 
Ans.: 	No. It is the responsibility of the student to check E:Vision to ensure that the modules registered for, are on his/her diet. Missing modules must be reported to the Admissions Office immediately, and not to the Accounts Department. 

REFUND 
Ques. 29: If I have overpaid on my fees, what is the refund procedure and how long will it take? 
Ans.: 	Students must complete the Refund Request Form and submit to the Student Receivables Department in the Finance & Business Services Division, along with copies of the “Fee Breakdown” and all payment receipts for the academic year for which the refund is 
being sought. Students will be advised via email when their refund is processed. 
Ques. 30: If I pay my fees to register and then I am approved for a loan from the Students’ Loan Bureau during the year, when will I receive a refund? 
Ans.: 	A student can only be refunded his/her portion after the Students’ Loan Bureau remits payment to the University, which is usually at the end of the academic year. 
Ques. 31: If I need an official estimate of my tuition fee to take to a financial institution for assistance, what can I do? 
Ans:	The student can request a letter/statement from the Student Financial Services Unit in the Finance Division indicating an estimate of fees. This will take a minimum of seven (7) working days. 

STATEMENT OF FEES 
Ques 32: Can I get an official statement of my account balance? 
Ans:	Yes. Students can obtain a statement from the Student Financial Services Unit in the Finance Division. This process may take a minimum  of seven (7) working days.  
Students may also visit the Students’ Portal for a system generated balance. 

REGISTRATION 
Ques. 33 After I have received my fee breakdown and made the necessary payments, am I registered? 
Ans.: 	No. Students are not registered until they have completed the 10-step  process online. 
Ques. 34 Will I be allowed to register for a new academic year with a balance outstanding? 
Ans.: 	No. All outstanding balances must be settled before a student is given financial clearance for a new  academic year.  
Furthermore, the University reserves the right to block a student’s account for non-payment of fees. 
Ques. 35 Will I be allowed to register with a Commitment Letter from a sponsor? 
Ans.: 	Yes. Once the letter is approved by the Sponsorship Unit, the student will be allowed to register provided the commitment covers the minimum requirement for financial clearance; but s/he must ensure that the sponsor settles the balance on time. 
Ques. 36: If I receive exemption for a certain number of modules, will there be a reduction in my tuition fees? 
Ans.: 	No. Students are not entitled to a reduction in their fees if they have received exemptions. 
Ques. 37: Why do we pay an Enrolment  Commitment Fee (ECF)? 
Ans.: 	Payment of the ECF is an indication of the student’s commitment to pursue studies for a given semester and therefore allows the student to begin the enrolment (module selection) process. In the first semester (only) of each academic year, the ECF represents a contribution towards the ancillary charges of your school fee. It is mandatory and non-refundable.  
In two subsequent semesters it is a initial deposit on total tuition fees. 
Ques. 38:  If my Identification card is lost what should be done to get another one? 
Ans.: Report the lost card immediately to the Safety and Security Department and pay for a replacement at Paymaster or  the cashier, UTech, Ja. 
Ques. 39:
If I already have an insurance/health card, am I still required to pay the amount which is on the “Fee Breakdown”? 
Ans.: 
Yes. All students must pay the health insurance fee even if they are covered under another health plan.