FEE_PAYMENT.txt

Ques. 1: What are the payment options?
Ans.: Payments can be made at Bill Express, Paymaster, UTech On-line.

Ques. 2: Will payments at Paymaster, Bill Express or UTech Online, allow for financial clearance immediately?
Ans.: No. Processing of all payment transactions require at least 2 clear working days.

Ques. 3: If I make payment on time at the payment agencies but the payment is remitted to the University after the payment deadline, will I have to pay a late fee?
Ans.: No. UTech, Ja. will not penalize you if the payment to our collecting agencies was made on time but remitted late to the University.
The late remittance will be a matter between the University and its payment agencies.

Ques. 4: Can I pay my fees in US$ if it is quoted in JAS?
Ans.: Yes, but you must note that there may be an exchange loss due to currency conversion which you will be required to bear. You will need to provide proof of payment to the Student Financial Services Unit.

Ques. 5: If I registered on a plan and decide that I need to change my option, can this be done?
Ans.: No. Once the Census Date has passed you are locked into the original plan.

Ques. 6: If I am partially sponsored, can I make part payment on the balance?
Ans.: No. Students are required to act according to the stipulations for payment as directed by the Finance Office each semester, This requires full payment for any amount not covered by the sponsor.

Ques. 7: Can we make part payment for accommodation?
Ans.: Yes. You may pay on a semesterly basis according to the Fee Payment Plan.

Ques. 8: Can boarding and tuition be paid with one payment?
Ans.: No, payment for tuition and boarding must be paid separately.

Ques. 9: Can part payment be made for a module added in the Add/Drop period?
Ans.: No. All modules added within the add/drop period must be paid for in full.

Ques. 10: If I am showing a credit adjustment to my account, should I wait until the adjustment is done before paying my current tuition?
Ans.: No. You should pay your current tuition in full and await the account update on the amount to be adjusted.

Ques. 11: If I have an outstanding balance for the University, can I get a transcript or my award?
Ans.: No. Transcript and Awards are not released until the student has fully settled his/her indebtedness to the University; irrespective of whether the debt is owed by a Sponsor or Donor on the student’s behalf.