Sponsorship/Scholarship.txt

Q21. If my sponsor/donor pays my fees and my account is in credit but I didn’t request the Bureau payment, can I get a refund?
A: Even if the student’s account is in credit, the Bureau will not refund fees made out of pocket unless the student cannot get the refund and gives written instruction to transfer the credit balance to the SLB.

Q22. If I am sponsored or a recipient of a scholarship, but I paid an excess on my tuition, will the excess be refunded?
A: Yes. You may request a refund of the excess fees paid by you. Otherwise, it can only be refunded if the sponsor has paid the amount covered.

Q23. If I register with a Letter of Commitment for sponsorship/scholarship, and the sponsor gives me the payment directly, can I make the payment at the bank or bill payment agency before receiving the cheque from my sponsor?
A: No. All cheques originating from a Letter of Commitment for sponsorship must be presented to the Sponsorship Unit of the Financial Aid Office (FAO) for processing. This will ensure that both the sponsor and student’s accounts are accurately recorded.

Q24. If my sponsor/donor commits to pay my fees, will UTech, Ja. give me a refund after receiving the commitment, even if the sponsor has not paid the university as yet?
A: No. A Letter of Commitment cannot be used to process a refund. Refunds can only be considered after payments are received in full and the student’s account is settled. If the student has not settled their tuition, no refund is allowed.

Q25. What will happen if I receive sponsorship/scholarship after being approved for a Student Loan and Grant-in-Aid?
A: The student is required to immediately inform both the Students’ Loan Bureau and the Sponsorship/Scholarship Unit in writing. The Bureau may require the student to forgo the loan in order to keep both the loan and the scholarship, which may not be permitted under their terms.

Ques. 26:  Can unused funds paid by my sponsor donor for an academic year be utilized in future academic years? 
Ans.:Yes. A credit in one academic year may be transferred to another academic year by making a written request at the Student Financial Services Unit in the Finance Division. 